Rodrigo Duterte, the tough-talking Davao City mayor, won the May 9 presidential election by a landslide against four other prominent officials according to the official congressional canvass of votes late Friday.
A spokesperson for Duterte called his "historic" victory “the triumph of the people, by the people and for the people.”
Camarines Sur Rep. Leni Robredo, widow of Interior secretary Jesse Robredo and first-term congresswoman, won the tight vice presidential race. The administration bet received news of her victory as she and her three daughters, relatives and supporters visited her husband's grave in Naga City to celebrate his birthday.
Duterte, who promised “genuine change” and campaigned on a hardline anti-crime platform, garnered 16,601,997 votes, over 6.6 million more than his closest rival, administration candidate Mar Roxas, according to the official tally by a joint congressional canvassing committee. Roxas was President Benigno Aquino III's choice as his successor to continue his "daang matuwid [straight path]" governance.
With 14,418,817 votes, Robredo won the neck-and-neck race against Sen. Bongbong Marcos by only 263,473 votes after the three-day canvass. Four other senators lost the race.
“Finally, victory has been achieved,” Peter Lavina, Duterte campaign spokesperson, said in a statement. “His victory is the triumph of the people, by the people and for the people. Let us celebrate this milestone of Philippine democracy by uniting and working for genuine change.”
Robredo said she was doubly happy over her victory because it came on the day she and her family celebrated her husband’s 58th birthday. Earlier in the day, she led the unveiling of a bust of her husband at the Cararayan National High School, which the late Robredo built when he was Naga mayor in 1989.
"There doesn’t seem to have been anything that was given to me that I didn't work hard for, and this is one of the tremendously difficult things that I have had to go through, and I know that this isn’t over. But the mere fact that it is now official — because Congress is done with it — it is a major step."
She said one of the first things she will do is to pay a courtesy call on Duterte. She will also use the remaining days before their inauguration as the country’s two highest officials  to prepare to “transition” to her new job “para sa June 30 sabak na agad sa trabaho [so that on June 30, I could immediately plunge into work].”
She said with her expertise in fighting poverty, she is eyeing appointment as head of the social welfare department, but she will respect the incoming president's choice. Duterte has said he will appoint a nominee of the Communist Party of the Philippines to the post.
Members of the Senate and the House of Representatives met in a joint session on Tuesday as the National Board of Canvassers (NBOC). They formed the joint committee composed of representatives of both chambers to canvass the election results. Canvassing began the following day.
The official results confirmed the partial, unofficial count made by the Parish Pastoral Council for Responsible Voting (PPCRV) showing Duterte winning the presidential elections by a wide margin. The count showed the neophyte legislator narrowly ahead of the son and namesake of the late strongman Ferdinand Marcos in the vice presidential race.
Duterte’s three other rivals — Roxas, Vice President Jejomar Binay, Sen. Grace Poe  — conceded the election shortly after the PPCRV count showed him leading the polls. Only Sen. Miriam Defensor Santiago has not conceded. A sixth candidate, former Ambassador Roy Seneres, died before the election campaign period began.
Marcos and his lawyers had questioned the PPCRV results of the vice presidential race, expressing suspicion that a script, or computer command, introduced into the Commission on Elections (Comelec) transparency server could have manipulated the PPCRV count.
Comelec Chairman Andres Bautista dismissed such claims, saying the script merely made “cosmetic changes” in the names of some candidates but did not alter the results.
George Garcia, a lawyer for Marcos, said the senator is “seriously considering” his options.
"And one of things he is considering is filing an electoral protest. We will count the ballots, if possible, for us to truly determine what happened to those votes. Were there really so many zero votes and did he really get zero in those places where his votes were reported to have been zero?"
Garcia, however, said the electoral protest could cost Marcos P30 million-P50 million because of the large amount of work needed, including examination of ballots from numerous areas around the country.
#
Rodrigo Duterte became the 16th president of the Philippines on Monday when a joint session of Congress declared him winner of a May 9 election, succeeding Benigno Aquino who steps down next month after six years in office.
The tough-talking Duterte, mayor of Davao City in the south, campaigned on the single issue of crushing crime and now faces a daunting task of fixing infrastructure, creating jobs and lifting more than a quarter of the 100 million population out of poverty.
"I hereby proclaim Rodrigo Roa Duterte and Maria Leonor Gerona Robredo as the duly elected president and vice president of the Republic of the Philippines," Senator Franklin Drilon and Congressman Feliciano Belmonte said in a joint session of Congress.
Robredo is an ally of Aquino's. She beat the son and namesake of late dictator Ferdinand Marcos to become vice president.
Duterte, 71, was in Davao on Monday and was declared winner in absentia.
He won the ballots of nearly 40 percent of 44 million voters, lured by his success against crime in Davao, despite the questions his policies raised among human rights campaigners.
Duterte has been criticized for allowing a spree of vigilante killings, and critics fear he could let them happen on a larger scale as president.
He has denied ordering killings, but has not condemned them.
The former prosecutor has said he will continue his predecessor's economic policies, which focused on infrastructure and fiscal efficiency, to help push growth up to 7-8 percent.
Growth has been on average 6 percent a year under Aquino, but it has not translated into jobs and improvement in the lives of ordinary Filipinos.
Among several appointments Duterte has announced is Ernesto Pernia, an economics professor from the University of the Philippines, as economic planning secretary, and a former agriculture secretary, Carlos Dominguez, as finance minister.
Duterte is due to announce his cabinet on Tuesday.
The president also inherits a territorial dispute with China but he has indicated his willingness to repair strained ties by inviting Chinese investment and offering to set aside sovereignty issues in exploring resources in the South China Sea. He has said he will not abandon Philippine claims.
Duterte has also said he would pursue peace with Marxist guerrillas and has even offered their leaders government roles.
He has said he wanted a more even distribution of power and wealth and has called on Congress to revise a 1987 constitution to allow for a more federal system of government to accommodate Muslim rebels in the south.
But confrontation looks to be looming with the influential Roman Catholic church.
Duterte has said he will defy the church and seek to impose a three-child policy and he has called Philippine bishops "sons of whores".
#
Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte and Camarines Sur Rep. Leni Robredo have emerged as winners of the May 9 national elections after the National Board of Canvassers finished counting certificates of canvass on Friday.
Based on the final official tally, Duterte won the presidential race with 16,601,997 votes while Robredo led the vice presidential race with 14,418,817 votes.
The canvassing of the votes took three days to finish, amid complaints by the camp of Sen. Ferdinand Marcos Jr. who came in at close second behind Robredo. For the presidential race, all other candidates have conceded to Duterte except Sen. Miriam Defensor-Santiago.
Sen. Koko Pimentel, sitting as the co-chair of the canvassing board, said the House of Representatives and the Senate will resume their joint session at 2 p.m. on Monday, where Duterte and Robredo will be proclaimed as the president- and vice president-elect, respectively.
#
