Thousands of passengers were stranded at Terminal 3 of the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) after a power outage hit the facility at 8:45 p.m. on Saturday and lasted more than five hours.
Power was restored at about 2 a.m. yesterday, but by then, at least 82 domestic flights had been cancelled and four international flights delayed.
Cebu Pacific Air, which uses the terminal heavily, said in a statement that 78 one-way flights were cancelled, affecting at least 13,950 passengers.
NAIA-3 officials said a sub-station of power provider Manila Electric Co. (Meralco) tripped and caused the blackout.
However, Meralco spokesman Joe Zaldarriaga denied the allegation.
Transportation and Communications Secretary Joseph Emilio Abaya said NAIA-3 has about 10 generator sets, but these failed to transmit enough power to keep the terminal operations going.
“The genset kicked in (when the blackout occurred), but it failed to transmit power…there is drainage in the battery-powered switch gear,” Abaya told GMA News.
Pasig City Rep. Roman Romulo expressed disbelief, saying, “I am appalled by the fact that NAIA 3 had no contingent or back-up plan for such an event.”
He said the incident was “shameful, to say the least.”
“It showed the lack of competence and foresight of those running the airport and the country’s transportation network, including the breakdown-prone Metro Rail Transit 3,” Romulo added.
Valenzuela Rep. Rex Gatchalian called for the ouster of Abaya and NAIA general manager Jose Angel Honrado.
“This is no longer a laughing matter. A five-hour blackout resulting in cancelled and delayed flights is proof that the transportation secretary and the NAIA general manager have been sleeping on their jobs. They should be sacked immediately,” the lawmaker stressed.
Gatchalian, who is the spokesman of presidential candidate Sen. Grace Poe, said the public deserves better services from the government. He lamented that the lack of a back-up power source reflects the kind of leaders that President Aquino has installed at the NAIA.
Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA) senior assistant general manager Vicente Guerzon said power was partially restored at 12:30 a.m. yesterday and fully normalized at around 2 a.m.
The country’s national carrier Philippine Airlines (PAL), which operates PAL Express, is waiving the rebooking fees and charges for all the affected passengers within 30 days. They are also giving passengers the option to get a refund.
PAL had four cancelled flights and 62 delayed flights. Many passengers missed their connecting flights after opting not to push through with their schedules following the long queues outside the dark airport terminal.
Cebu Pacific Air, which canceled at least 78 domestic flights, also gave its passengers the refund or rebook options.
“We sincerely hope for our guests’ understanding, as this situation is due to factors beyond the airline’s control,” an airline statement read.
International carriers Cathay Pacific, Emirates, KLM and Singapore Airlines reported at least one delayed flight each.
Exhausted passengers lay sprawled on the floor as check-in counters and luggage carousels shut down. Long queues formed outside the terminal as entrances were closed for security reasons until power was restored.
Terminal 3 of the NAIA, named after the assassinated father of incumbent President Aquino, handles an average of 350 domestic and international flights daily, according to data from the transportation department.
It is one of four terminals in a complex that was once dubbed by the travel website Guide to Sleeping in Airports as the world’s worst due to leaking toilets and creaking facilities.
Gatchalian said the NAIA is an embarrassment given its history of flight delays due to runway congestion, tanim-bala (bullet planting in passengers’ luggage) and ill-maintained infrastructure.
The airport authority, Guerzon stressed, apologizes for the inconvenience and said that “measures are now being worked out to make sure that a power outage does not occur again in the future.”
He added that NAIA officials and Meralco would analyze and assess the incident today.
NAIA 3 manager Octavio Lina said they had all generators operating during the outage, but that this was limited only to airport lights and air-conditioning systems.
During the incident, all NAIA 3 systems were down, especially at the departure area, he added. Operations at the arrival area continued, although with “limited resources.”
#
Thousands of passengers are stranded while some claimed losing some of their valuables after a brownout hit the Ninoy Aquino International Airport Terminal 3 Saturday evening.
Cecilio Gresos, one of the passengers from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania said he discovered his two luggage were opened. When he checked his luggage, some of his valuables were already missing.
“Nawala yung dalawang cellphone ko, tapos yung isang bag ko, may padlock yun. Tapos punong-puno itong (front pocket ng maleta ko). Lahat nawala," he said.
A female passenger lost a few pairs of shoes. Another man retrieved a completely ruined bag.
Power initially went out at 8:40 p.m and went back at 9:25 pm, only to lose it again at 9:47 pm.
All doors at the terminal were closed, preventing anyone from getting in or out.
The brownout has delayed flights at NAIA 3. Some arriving planes had to use other terminals.
The Manila International Airport Authority has yet to issue a statement about the incident.
Meanwhile, Meralco has sent a team to investigate the cause of the brownout.
In an interview, Meralco spokesperson Joe Zaldarriaga said the problem was not on the part of the power company since no other establishments were affected by the power interruption.
Nonetheless, he assured that Meralco will be in full cooperation with the airport management to bring power back immediately.
NAIA terminals 1, 2 and 4 were not affected by the brownout. 
#
Power went out at the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) Terminal 3 on Saturday evening, April 2.
Some netizens posted photos and video of the power outage on Twitter.
As of 2 am, Sunday, Rappler sports editor Ryan Songalia who was traveling out via Terminal 3 observed "massive lines" outside, with power still unrestored.
The Twitter account of NAIA replied to somIn a phone interview, an airport operations staff who requested anonymity told Rappler that the blackout started at around 8:45 pm.
He said that the system is “down” at the terminal, affecting operations at the departure area. However, he added that operations at the arrival area still continue.
Just before 11 pm, however, netizens onboard some of the planes tweeted and quoted pilots as saying all arrivals and departures were on hold.e of the earlier tweets, confirming that there was indeed no power at Terminal 3. It then said that NAIA is “currently assessing the situation to have the power back on."
In a phone interview, an airport operations staff who requested anonymity told Rappler that the blackout started at around 8:45 pm.
The airport staff also said that NAIA is trying to determine the cause of the power outage.
An April 1 notice by Meralco said that maintenance schedules from 11:30 pm of April 2 until 4:30 am of April 3 would affect a "portion of NAIA Road from Domestic Road to near Electrical Road in Pasay City." The reason cited was the "relocation of facilities affected by the construction of NAIA Expressway project along NAIA Road in Pasay City."
It was not clear if the power outage at Terminal 3 was related to this.
Shortly before midnight, a pilot of a Cebu Pacific plane that landed at about 10:50 pm from Bacolod announced to passengers that departure planes were not allowed to leave and that all terminal bays were occupied.
Rappler's Mara Mercado who is on board that plane reported that a stewardess announced to them, "We have lost communication with our wrap control. No one can assign us to our proper bay assignment."
Passengers have not been able to disembark from planes despite having landed hours ago. As of 12:30 am, Mercado reported, "The planes are being manually towed to any free terminal bay."
Ariel Arcilla of the Media Affairs office told Rappler, “Passengers/planes now being directed to Terminal 4 for offboarding.”
Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA) Spokesperson David de Castro told Rappler at about 12:38 am they were "continuously assessing the situation" and that a team from MIAA and Meralco has been checking the airport's power room.
They have been working on partial energy using a mix of power sourced from generators and Meralco, he said. This has, however, been unable to sustain entire operations.
The power outage created a domino effect as it caused one generator to malfunction, De Castro explained, clarifying, however, that it was not the main cause of the outage.
He advised passengers with delayed flights to call their airlines immediately for options. As of 1 am, no flights were flying out of Terminal 3. Arriving passengers, according to De Castro, have started to be deplaned in other available terminals, including Terminal 3 itself.
He added they are working to restore power. He apologized and asked for "patience" from passengers who have not been allowed to deplane.
At past 2 am, De Castro reported that power had been restored.
The power outage is yet another addition to the string of inconveniences at NAIA Terminal 3. In January, part of the ceiling at the same terminal collapsed, slightly injuring a foreign passenger.
Terminal 3 opened in 2008 after an extended legal battle between the government and the Filipino-German consortium that built it. Terminal 3 has not suffered any major incidents since it underwent a major rehabilitation in 2013-14.
Prior to the incident that involved the collapsed ceiling last January, passengers had complained about leaks, collapsed floors, malfunctioning equipment, congestion, dilapidated facilities, and rude or corrupt personnel.
All these combined earned for Manila a reputation that pushed it to the top of the list of the world's worst airports compiled by the travel website "The Guide to Sleeping in Airports" from 2011-13. It got off the list after congestion problems were eased by more passengers passing through Terminal 3. 
He said that the system is “down” at the terminal, affecting operations at the departure area. However, he added that operations at the arrival area still continue.
Just before 11 pm, however, netizens onboard some of the planes tweeted and quoted pilots as saying all arrivals and departures were on hold.
#