Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (PLDT) yesterday unveiled its new logo in line with its move to go beyond its traditional businesses and shift focus to data-driven services.
In a statement yesterday, PLDT said the new logo reflects a fresh brand identity and shows the company’s commitment to better serve customers who are using digital services more and more in their daily lives.
The new logo, which replaces PLDT’s 33-year-old logo, is triangular in shape – a symbol for Delta or change. Its three sides represent the company’s business pillars: exceptional people, meaningful innovations, and valuable customers.
“Taken together, these three pillars create tremendous energy that will enable our customers to achieve their limitless potential. The triangle’s three sides support each other. Thus, an inherent strength flows harmoniously among the sides to sustain the structure,” PLDT and Smart chairman and chief executive officer Manuel V. Pangilinan said.
PLDT’s previous logo was formed through a repetition of the abstract figure of the telephone receiver to complete four sides. Smart has likewise changed its logo.
The release of new logo comes as the company is looking to change its name from “Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company” to “PLDT Inc.” to better represent the new direction being taken by the firm.
PLDT intends to get its shareholders’ approval of the name change in the stockholders’ meeting today.
As part of the greater focus on data, PLDT and its wireless unit Smart Communications Inc. have started work on a three-year plan to transform their networks into the country’s most data capable infrastructure and deliver a wide array of digital services.
For this year, the group has earmarked P43 billion worth of capital expenditures to improve data coverage and capacity.
The group is also looking to allocate about P4 billion to P5 billion worth of additional capex to be used for the utilization of the 700 Megahertz (MHz) band, which it acquired from its joint acquisition with Globe Telecom Inc. of San Miguel Corp.’s telco assets.
The 700 MHz band or  the so-called digital dividend is considered a key to boosting internet services in the country as the frequency has greater coverage and can penetrate buildings and walls.
Apart from investing in infrastructure, PLDT and its various subsidiaries such as Voyager Innovations Inc. and Talas Data Intelligence are also developing and offering digital and financial technology services.
“Rather than allow ourselves to be disrupted by new technologies, we are disrupting ourselves. We have embarked on a digital pivot to enable us to serve the increasing needs of our people’s digital lifestyle and the country’s growing digital economy,” Pangilinan said.
#
PLDT and its wireless unit Smart Communications have both overhauled their company logos in keeping with their ongoing shift to reinforce their digital business.
PLDT, the country's once-dominant carrier, has been in the process of turning a new leaf as it sheds its traditional legacy telephony business toward more data-driven revenue models. And a crucial part of the company's so-called "digital pivot" is marrying its fixed-line capabilities with its wireless competency.
In line with the longed-for convergence, the new logos of PLDT and Smart are now similar, save for their respective colors.
"The new logo symbolizes the powerful convergence of PLDT and Smart, combining fixed and wireless technologies to serve individual and enterprise customers," PLDT said in a press statement.
The new logo will now replace PLDT's 33-year old logo based on a representation of telephone receivers.
"Rather than allow ourselves to be disrupted by new technologies, we are disrupting ourselves. We have embarked on a digital pivot to enable us to serve the increasing needs of our people's digital lifestyle and the country's growing digital economy," PLDT and Smart Chair and CEO Manuel V. Pangilinan said in a press release.
Pangilinan has been aggressively pushing the company's digital shift as PLDT's erstwhile dominance has now been eroded by competitor Globe Telecom due in large part to the latter's digital portfolio.
This year, PLDT is expecting profits of P28 billion, down from P35.2 billion last year as the company plays catch-up in the digital space.
PLDT has also allocated P43 billion in capital spending to strengthen its digital spine, with $100 million more to be spent in line with the P69.1 billion co-acquisition with Globe of San Miguel Corp's telco business, including the prized 700 megahertz spectrum allocation.
Though PLDT and Globe both contend the mega-acquisition as aboveboard, the newly formed Philippine Competition Commission maintains that the deal will still be subject to review.
#
PLDT and its mobile subsidiary, Smart Communications have unveiled new product logos June 13. “The new logo symbolizes the powerful convergence of PLDT and Smart, combining fixed and wireless technologies to serve individual and enterprise customers,” PLDT said in a press release. The only difference between the two new logos is the colorway.
PLDT added that the fresh brand identity reflects desire to empower customers who are increasingly embracing digital services in daily lives.
“Rather than allow ourselves to be disrupted by new technologies, we are disrupting ourselves. We have embarked on a digital pivot to enable us to serve the increasing needs of our people’s digital lifestyle and the country’s growing digital economy,” said PLDT and Smart Chairman and CEO Manuel V. Pangilinan.
“We shall lead the digital revolution by embracing the smart life within the organization, pursuing digital innovations and enabling our customers to go digital in their own ways. The biggest winners will be our customers who will have a growing range of choices at their fingertips,” Pangilinan stressed.
“The new logo symbolizes the powerful convergence of PLDT and Smart, combining fixed and wireless technologies to serve individual and enterprise customers,” PLDT said.
The new PLDT and Smart logo is shaped like a triangle with the three sides representing the Company’s business pillars – exceptional people, meaningful innovations, and our valuable customers.
The triangle is also the symbol for Delta, the fourth letter in the Greek alphabet, which stands for “Change”.
#