MANILA, Philippines (Updated 6:00 p.m.) – The Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration on Sunday maintained Tropical Cyclone Warning Signal (TCWS) No. 1  over some areas of the country as tropical depression “Ambo” maintained its strength.
Ambo, initially a low pressure area (LPA), located in Eastern Samar developed into the country’s first tropical depression of the year on Sunday morning.
“The low pressure area east of Borongan City has developed into a tropical depression and was named “Ambo,” PAGASA said in its advisory.
The state weather bureau said Ambo's center was located at 140 kilometers northeast of Virac, Catanduanes around 4:00 p.m. It has maximum winds of 45 kilometers per hour (kph) near the center.
PAGASA issued TCWS No. 1 for Catanduanes, Camarines Norte, Camarines Sur, Northern Quezon including Polillo Islands, Aurora and Quirino.
PAGASA warned that winds of 30-60 kph may be expected within the next 36 hours. The wind may break twigs and branches while banana plants may tilt or land flat on the ground and rice in flowering stage may suffer significant damage. Some nipa and cogon houses may be partially unroofed while sea travel of small sea crafts and fishing boats is risky, the weather bureau also said.
In its weather bulletin, PAGASA also estimated the rainfall to be moderate to heavy with 2.5 to 10 millimeters per hour within the 200-km diameter of Ambo. Due to this, residents of Central Luzon, CALABARZON and the Bicol Region are warned of occasional moderate to heavy rains beginning Sunday.
“Ambo is expected to weaken after making landfall over Aurora province early morning tomorrow,” the advisory read.
PAGASA advised the “residents in low lying and mountainous areas of the provinces [where storm warnings signals have been raised] are alerted against possible flashfloods and landslides” and monitor weather bulletins for updates.
“The public and the disaster risk reduction and management council concerned are advised to take appropriate actions,” the weather agency said.
Ambo is expected to move West Northwest at 22 kph, up from 19 kph in the advisory Sunday morning.
//PHILIPPINE STAR, JUNE 26, 2016 
#
The low pressure area east of Borongan City has developed into the first tropical depression to enter the country in 2016, the state weather bureau said.
In a weather bulletin late Sunday morning, Pagasa said that the tropical depression, named “Ambo,” is at 182 km east of Virac, Catanduanes.
It has maximum sustained winds of 45 kilometers per hour (kph) near the center and is expected to move in a west northwest direction at 10 kph.
Public Storm Warning Signal No. 1 was raised over seven areas: Catanduanes, Camarines Norte, Camarines Sur, Northern Quezon including Polillo Islands, Aurora, and Quirino.
Pagasa said that Ambo is expected to bring moderate to heavy rains over Central Luzon, Calabarzon and Bicol Region. But it expects the tropical depression to weaken when it makes its landfall in Aurora province on Monday.
The state weather bureau cautioned residents in places under Signal No. 1 against possible flashfloods and landslides.
//INQUIRER, JUNE 26, 2016
#
Tropical depression Ambo – the first officially named storm in the country this year – is expected to make landfall at the Aurora province by Monday morning; storm warning signals raised in 6 areas.
MANILA, Philipines – The low pressure area off the east of Borongan City, Eastern Samar has developed into tropical depression "Ambo," the first officially named storm in the country this year.
But according to the 11:30 am bulletin by state weather PAGASA on Sunday, June 26, Ambo is expected to weaken after making landfall over the Aurora province on Monday, June 27.
As of 10 am on Sunday, Ambo’s center was located 182 kilometers east of Virac, Catanduanes, packing maximum winds of 45 kilometers per hour. It is expected to move west northwest at 19 kilometers per hour.
PAGASA advised residents in low-lying and mountainous areas with public storm warning signal number 1 to brace for possible flash floods and landslides. These are:
Catanduanes
Camarines Norte
Camarines Sur
Northern Quezon including Polillo Islands
Aurora
Quirino
Ambo will likely bring with it an estimated 2.5 to 10 millimeters of rainfall per hour in areas within the 200 kilometers of the tropical depression.
Central Luzon, CALABARZON, and the Bicol regions should expect occasional moderate to heavy rains starting today.
The bureau also wants the public and the disaster risk reduction and management councils concerned in affected areas to “take appropriate actions.”
//RAPPLER JUNE 26, 2016