The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (Phivolcs) has allayed fears that a major eruption in Mt. Bulusan is imminent following the steam-driven explosion that happened on Friday morning.
“It is a common volcanic activity in Mt. Bulusan,” Phivolcs director Renato Solidum said, referring to the five-minute phreatic eruption that sent ash plume as high as two kilometers.
Solidum explained that the recent activity – caused by the conversion of ground water to steam – is common in the volcano considered as among the most active in the country.
Phivolcs retained the volcano’s status at abnormal (Alert 1), which warns the public that such occurrences may happen. Hydrothermal processes are ongoing beneath the volcano that may lead further steam-driven eruptions.
Solidum said current observations of the volcano’s activity do not indicate the need to raise the alert status, and Phivolcs will immediately alert the public if changes will be implemented.
#
Mt. Bulusan in Sorsogon province has spewed ashes on Friday afternoon drifting North West to the town of Juban, the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) said.
Ed Laguerta, PHIVOLCS resident volcanologist based in Albay said that the explosion happened 11:35 a.m. to 11:40 a.m. was only a phreatic explosion coming from a shallow source.
He said the phreatic explosion was clearly seen due to fair weather with the height of 2 kilometers high of thick grayish to white clouds.
Laguerta also warned of the “no human activity” inside the 4 kilometer-permanent danger zone (PDZ) due to possible rock falls brought by the explosion. He also warned LGUs to provide safety measures especially to roads affected by ash falls.
“Yung unang biktima ng Pinatubo eruption ay aksidente sa kalsada kasi madulas yung daan dala ng mga abong ibinuga ng bulkan. Delikado pag nabasa yung abo dahil madulas yun para sa mga sasakyan,” he narrated.
Laguerta narrated that today’s phreatic explosion is the 2nd after the phreatic explosion last February 22.
#
Mt. Bulusan in Sorsogon province spewed a 2-kilometer ash column around 11:35 a.m., Friday.
Renato Solidum of the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (Phivolcs) said in a phone interview that the eruption was “phreatic” which produced a grayish ash plume that drifted to the western side of the volcano. In the past 24 hours, Phivolcs has recorded 113 quakes around Mt. Bulusan.
“Residents outside the 4-kilometer area are safe, but must prepare for possible ashfall,” he added.
Eduardo Laguerta of Phivolcs Legazpi said the ashfall would possibly affect Cogon village of Irosin and Puting Sapa village of Juban town.
#