Metro Manila (CNN Philippines) — Typhoon Butchoy brought heavy rains to several areas in Luzon and Metro Manila even after it made landfall in Taiwan early Friday.
Nepartak, as Butchoy is called internationally, was categorized as a super typhoon with 240 kph winds when it hit Taiwan’s southeastern city of Taitung. At least one died and 66 were injured, and up to 15,000 have been forced to evacuate, the Taiwan Central Emergency Operations Center said.
By 5 p.m. the typhoon has crossed Southern Taiwan and continues to move farther away from the Philippines, with maximum winds down to 150 kph and gusts of 185 kph. It was forecast to move northwest toward China at 12 kph, according to the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA).
The typhoon enhanced the southwest monsoon and dumped heavy rains over the northwestern part of the country, causing floods in Zambales and Bataan. PAGASA also warned of possible flash floods and landslides in the two provinces as well as in Pangasinan, Mindoro and Northern Palawan.
Over a hundred people have been evacuated due to flooding in the villages of San Felipe, San Jacinto and San Antonio in Zambales, according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC).
Floods also were reported in Cavite and Batangas, which will continue to experience moderate to occasionally heavy rains along with Cavite and Mindoro until Monday.
Low lying areas in Metro Manila, Pampanga, Bulacan, Laguna and Rizal, also were flooded. NDRRMC said all roads in Metro Manila are still passable except for one in Maysilo, Madaluyong.
PAGASA said sea travel will be risky and advised fishermen not to venture into the southern and western seaboards of Luzon.
All tropical cyclone warning signals have been lifted.
The NDRRMC reminds residents in low lying areas to take precaution as the rains continue to pour.
#
MANILA, Philippines – Typhoon Butchoy (Nepartak) left the Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) at 3 pm on Friday, July 8.
But even if Butchoy is already outside PAR and it did not make landfall in the Philippines, it continues to enhance the southwest monsoon.
For the rest of Friday and also on Saturday, July 9, expect monsoon rains in Metro Manila, Cavite, Laguna, Zambales, Bataan, Batangas, Pangasinan, Calamian Group of Islands, and Mindoro.
The Visayas and the rest of Luzon will also have occasional rains, while Mindanao will have isolated rainshowers or thunderstorms.
#
MANILA, Philippines - Classes and work in government offices in Luzon were suspended yesterday due to heavy rains brought by the southwest monsoon enhanced by Typhoon Butchoy.
Butchoy (international name Nepartak) continued to move away from the country yesterday, but it will continue to induce monsoon rains in many parts of Luzon, including Metro Manila, this weekend, the state weather bureau said. 
Aldczar Aurelio, weather forecaster at the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA), said Butchoy weakened after hitting landmass in Taiwan early yesterday morning. 
The typhoon is expected to further weaken into a severe tropical storm as it heads toward mainland China by tomorrow.
As of 4 p.m. Friday, the eye of Butchoy was spotted at 365 kilometers northwest of Itbayat, Batanes with maximum sustained winds of 150 kilometers per hour near the center and gustiness of up to 185 kph. 
It was projected to move northwest at a speed of 12 kph and was forecast to exit the Philippine area of responsibility yesterday. PAGASA has lifted all tropical cyclone warning signals as of 5 p.m.
Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1
But Aurelio said the enhanced southwest monsoon would continue to bring moderate to heavy rains over the western section or Central and Southern Luzon, including Metro Manila, until Sunday morning.
Frequent moderate to occasionally heavy rains would prevail over the western section of Northern and Central Luzon until Monday.
Aurelio also warned residents of Pangasinan, Zambales, Bataan, Mindoro and Northern Palawan against possible flashfloods and landslides. 
Sea travel along the seaboards of Luzon is also risky.
Aurelio said the weather would improve in Metro Manila by Sunday night or Monday, while the whole country will have better weather by Monday or Tuesday.