The "Badjao Girl" that has become a social media sensation is hoping that all the attention somehow helps her and her family climb out of poverty.
Rita Gabriola, 13, thanked netizens who made her pictures go viral for their generous compliments on her looks.
She also thanked Topher Quinto, the man who took her pictures at the Pahiyas Festival in Lucban, Quezon where she was begging for alms with her sibling.
"Masaya lang po ako at nagpapasalamat ako kay Kuya Topher, ako po ang napili niya. Kaya sobra-sobrang pasasalamat ko sa kanya," Gabriola said in an interview with Lia Manalac del Castillo on 24 Oras on Tuesday.
The photos by Quinto gained so much attention that the son of incoming president Rodrigo Duterte praised Gabriola for her natural beauty and effortless poise.
"Hindi ko po alam na magva-viral siya. Pero nung pinost ko sa Facebook. Bigla po syang nag-viral at ang dami pong gustong tumulong sa kanya," Quinto said.
Gabriola only learned of her newfound fame through others as she did not know how to use phones or the internet, having grown up in an isolated town in Quezon.
"Hindi po ako marunong mag-internet, pinakita lang sakin sa cellphone. Pinagsabihan nila ako na, uy si Rita, artista na. Ganyan lang po sinasabi nila," she said.
She is optimistic that the outpouring of support triggered by the pictures will help her fulfill her dreams.
"Kaya ko po gustong maging guro, gusto ko pong matulungan ang tulad ng mga kapatid kong bata. Gusto ko rin po sila maipag-aral. At sabi sakin ng tatay ko, gusto niya kong mapag-aral. Kasi kami na lang po ang pag-asa naming magkakapatid," Gabriola said.
EOS
When her photos went viral on the Internet, 13-year-old Rita Gaviola, a Badjao lass from the village of Barra here, was frightened by the amount of attention she received from netizens.
"I got scared. I thought I would be arrested by the police for begging," said Gaviola, who admitted she was computer illiterate and knew nothing about Facebook and social media.
Gaviola was photographed by Lucena City-based photographer Topher Quinto Burgos on May 15 during the Pahiyas Festival in Lucban town in Quezon province. Her brown skin, striking jawline, high cheekbones, soulful eyes and model-like physique captured the admiration of netizens and earned her the online moniker "Badjao Girl."
But instead of getting her into trouble with the law, her unexpected fame has brought hope to her Badjao community and family. Through online campaigns via social media, some of Gaviola’s admirers offered to help her family and the Badjao community here while others took the opportunity to advocate protection for Badjaos and raise public awareness on their plight.
Gaviola admitted she was begging with her 2-year-old sister at the Pahiyas. She was shown her photos on the Internet by another teenager in her village.
Her photos caught the attention of celebrities like Miss World Philippines 2015 Hillarie Danielle Parungao, Miss International Philippines 2014 Bianca Guidotti and Miss Earth 2015 Angelia Ong. On their Twitter posts, the beauty queens offered to help the Badjao girl.
"Give this girl a chance to show the meaning of morena. This is what you call true Mindanaoan (Filipino) beauty," said Sebastian Duterte, son of presumptive President-elect Rodrigo Duterte, on a Twitter post.
One of her admirers created a Facebook page called Badjao Girl. The page had been "liked" by at least 35,000 people as of Wednesday.
Burgos said some netizens had provided food, clothes and cash to Gaviola’s family.
EOS
A Badjao teen has been overwhelmed with the attention she has been receiving after a photograph of her begging for spare change during a local festival in Lucban, Quezon went viral online.
The photo, posted on Facebook last May 14 by photographer Topher Quinto Burgos, showed 13-year-old Rita Gaviola begging with her younger sister at the Pahiyas Festival.
Filipino netizens gushed over her morena skin and high cheekbones.
Burgos captioned her post: "Nakita lang namin siya nanghihingi ng barya. Kapatid nating mga Badjao na may angkin ganda."
It was then reported by local television. A reposted photo on a page dedicated to Gaviola titled "Badjao Girl" was also shared close to 72,000 times on the social networking site.
Gaviola told the Philippine Daily Inquirer that she hopes her unexpected fame will help her achieve her dream of becoming a teacher.
"I want to finish my studies and be a teacher someday. I want to help my siblings and the other Badjao kids to get education," shared Gaviola, who lives in a shack in Barangay Barra, Lucena City with her family.
Lucena City Mayor Roderick Alcala, according to Inquirer, said he would send Gaviola to school. Asis Perez, the national director of the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, as well as a host of local beauty queens have also promised help for Gaviola.
"I don't want them (children) to beg. But hunger forces us," admitted Gaviola's father Danny in the same interview.
According to the article, Danny and his family traveled to Lucena City from Zamboanga to "escape poverty."
EOS