The Philippines on Tuesday, June 14, condemned the Abu Sayyaf's “brutal and senseless” murder of another Canadian hostage as it vowed to end the group’s “reign of terror and banditry.
“We strongly condemn the brutal and senseless murder of Mr Robert Hall, a Canadian national, after being held captive by the Abu Sayyaf group in Sulu for the past 9 months. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his bereaved family,” Palace Communications Secretary Herminio Coloma Jr said in a statement.
The Abu Sayyaf confirmed on Monday that it had beheaded Hall after the lapse of its deadline for a P600-million ransom payment for the Canadian and two other hostages, Norwegian national Kjartan Sekkingstad and Marites Flor, a Filipino.
In April, the group killed Canadian John Ridsdel after a ransom deadline passed.
Ridsdel, Hall, Sekkingstad, and Flor were abducted in September 2015 from a resort on Samal Island, hundreds of kilometers from the Abu Sayyaf's traditional strongholds.
Coloma said that for the last two months, military and police operations against the Abu Sayyaf "have degraded the capability of our enemies and limited their movements."
"This latest heinous crime serves to strengthen our government’s resolve to put an end to this reign of terror and banditry," he said.
Malacañang thanked the Canadian government and people "for their steadfast support and understanding which has been extremely helpful in our determined efforts to end this decades-old problem."
"We truly regret that our people’s cherished tradition of extending gracious hospitality toward foreign nationals has been marred by a small band of criminals whose despicable actions have been abetted by the extortion of ransom from their previous victims," Coloma said.
The Abu Sayyaf is in the United States list of terrorist organizations. It is blamed for the Philippines' worst terror attacks, including the bombing of a ferry in Manila in 2004 that killed more than 100 people, and the kidnappings of dozens of foreigners.
#
Malacañang on Tuesday slammed the execution of a Canadian national held hostage by the bandit group Abu Sayyaf.
“We strongly condemn the brutal and senseless murder of Mr. Robert Hall, a Canadian national, after being held captive by the Abu Sayyaf group in Sulu for the past nine months,” Communications Secretary Herminio Coloma Jr. said in a statement.
“We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his bereaved family,” he said.
An Abu Sayyaf spokesperson, shortly after the ransom deadline lapsed, said Canadian Robert Hall has been executed. Later that day, a decapitated head was found in Jolo, Sulu.
In the statement, Coloma thanked the Canadian government for its “steadfast support and understanding.” He said this helped in the government’s “determined efforts to end this decades-old problem.”
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau expressed support for the Philippine government after John Ridsdel, who was part of the hostaged group, was executed last month.
The Philippines has a no-ransom policy. Despite the Abu Sayyaf demanding P600 million in exchange for the lives of three of its hostages, the government said it will not lay ransom and is instead focusing on rescuing the captives.
“We truly regret that our people’s cherished tradition of extending gracious hospitality toward foreign nationals has been marred by a small band of criminals whose despicable actions have been abetted by the extortion of ransom from their previous victims,” Coloma said.
The group of four, which includes a Norwegian national and Hall’s Filipina girlfriend Marites Flor, were on vacation in Samal Island when they were abducted by the bandit group.
“For the past two months, the AFP and the PNP have waged continuing military and law enforcement operations that have degraded the capability of our enemies and limited their movements,” Coloma said. “This latest heinous crime serves to strengthen our government’s resolve to put an end to this reign of terror and banditry.” 
#
“It is with deep sadness that I have reason to believe that a Canadian citizen, Robert Hall, held hostage in the Philippines since September 21, 2015, has been killed by his captors,” Trudeau said in a nationally televised address.
“We continue to work closely with the authorities in the Philippines to formally confirm Mr Hall’s death. We have every reason to believe that the reports are unfortunately true,” Trudeau said.
The Canadian flag atop parliament was lowered to half-mast in Hall’s honor.
“The vicious and brutal actions of the hostage-takers have led to a needless death. Canada holds the terrorist group who took him hostage fully responsible for this cold-blooded and senseless murder,” Trudeau said.
After Trudeau’s comments, Philippine authorities said late Monday they recovered a human head on the Abu Sayyaf stronghold of Jolo island.
“Yes we recovered a Caucasian-looking one…. Seems like Robert Hall,” regional military spokesman Major Filemon Tan told AFP, adding police investigators were now trying to establish the person’s identity.
Canadian John Ridsdel was beheaded in April after a similar ransom demand of 300 million pesos was not paid.
The fates of the two other people abducted at the Samal resort — Hall’s Filipina girlfriend Marites Flor and Norwegian resort manager Kjartan Sekkingstad — were not known.
Norway’s foreign minister, Borge Brende, said his country continued to seek their release, while denouncing Hall’s killing.
“I condemn in the strongest terms the brutal killing of Canadian citizen Robert Hall. If these reports are true, abhorrence and outrage is the only reasonable response,” Brende said in a statement.
– Canada ‘will not pay’ ransoms -Listed by the United States as a terrorist organization, the Abu Sayyaf is a loose network of Islamic militants that was founded in the early 1990s with money from Osama bin Laden’s Al-Qaeda network.
It is regarded as one of the most radical offshoots of a Muslim separatist insurgency in the south of the mainly Catholic Philippines that has claimed more than 100,000 lives since the 1970s.
The Abu Sayyaf is believed to have just a few hundred armed followers but authorities regard it is as one of the most dangerous terrorist groups in the Philippines.
Its leaders have in recent years declared allegiance to the Islamic State group that holds vast swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria. 
But security analysts believe the leaders are chiefly focused on getting money from kidnappings-for-ransom rather than waging a religious war.
Abu Sayyaf gangs have earned many millions of dollars from kidnapping foreigners and Filipinos since the early 1990s.
At a G7 summit in Japan in April, Trudeau pressed partners to publicly denounce such payments, saying it only emboldens hostage takers and fuels more violence and instability.
“Canada cannot and will not pay ransoms to terrorists,” he said Monday.
Rather, he said, Canada will continue to work with allies and the Philippines “to pursue those responsible for these heinous acts and bring them to justice, however long it takes.”
Aquino vowed after Ridsdel’s death that security forces would “neutralize” the Abu Sayyaf, but a fresh offensive involving thousands of troops apparently had little impact.
The Abu Sayyaf has for years withstood repeated military offensives against it, surviving by using the mountainous, jungle terrain and support of local Muslim communities to its advantage.
From 2002-2014, the US deployed Special Forces advisers to train and provide intelligence to Filipino troops, which led to the killing or arrest of many Abu Sayyaf leaders.
But the Abu Sayyaf went on a sustained kidnapping spree after the Americans left.
#