Actress Nadine Lustre is leading the online poll for the "FHM 100 Sexiest Women in the World 2016," according to partial results released by the local men's magazine on Saturday.
The "On the Wings of Love" star is ahead of last year's winner, Jennylyn Mercado, and Kapamilya actress Jessy Mendiola. "Pilipinas Got Talent" judge Angel Locsin is in fourth place, while actress-singer Rhian Ramos rounded up the top five.
Fans of Lustre on Twitter responded to the initial results with both excitement and humor. They urged actor James Reid, the boyfriend of Lustre, to "stay strong," recalling an interview wherein Reid said that he disapproved of Lustre posing for sexy photo shoots.
The FHM Philippines poll will end on June 15. Last year, Mercado trailed both actress Andrea Torres and "Pasion de Amor" star Ellen Adarna in the days before voting concluded. She, however, overtook the two and was named as the sexiest woman in the country for 2015.
The 22-year-old Lustre placed 49th in last year's poll. Her surprising jump to the top of the list this year may be attributed to the popularity boost she received after the successful run of the primetime series "On the Wings of Love," which concluded in February.
#
Actress Nadine Lustre beats the country’s sexy stars in the FHM 100 Sexiest poll, according to the partial results of the local men’s magazine.
Lustre only landed 49th place in FHM Sexiest list in 2015.
But now, Lustre is ahead of of last year’s Jennylyn Mercado and Jessy Mendiola, so far. Thanks to the loyal fans of Lustre, especially the Jadine fans.
Voting for the FHM 100 Sexiest 2016 is extended until June 15, 2016.
Meanwhile, Lustre’s boyfriend James Reid, posted his funny comments on Twitter “ HOY! Who is responsible for this!?!?!.”
He added  ”Jadines, I thought we were on the same team :( .”
#
FHM Philippines recently announced that Nadine Lustre is leading its poll for FHM 100 Sexiest 2016 as of June 3. 
A lot of eyebrows were raised, considering that Nadine is known more as a young and wholesome dramatic actress and singer, and not as a "sexy" celebrity (although she is).
Included among those who were sort of shocked with FHM's partial and unofficial results was none other than her reel to real boyfriend, James Reid.
James expressed his "dismay", complete with a pouting face emoticon on Twitter. He tweeted a screen cap of the FHM results with a big fat red arrow pointing to Nadine's name. Then here's his epic reaction:"HOY! Who is responsible for this!?!?!"
JaDine fans proceeded to kid him , the hashtag #StayStrongJamesReid even became one of the top trending topics on Twitter.
The fans posted photos of Nadine garbed in sexy clothes or in sexy poses as justification for their votes. 
They were also asking James to better be ready when and if Nadine emerges as the final winner of the FHM poll. Because if that happens, Nadine will have to walk on the FHM Ramp in a sexy dress.
The JaDine love team has one of the strongest fandoms in the country, capable of trending hashtags and delivering big votes in polls and contests for James or Nadine. So if they want Nadine to win as FHM's sexiest for 2016, they can let her hold that top spot till the end of voting on June 15.
In the partial results released by FHM, Nadine is followed by 2015 winner Jennylyn Mercado. In third place is Jessy Mendiola, followed by Angel Locsin in fourth, and Rhian Ramos in fifth place. Rounding up the top 10 are Arci Munoz, Jinri Park, Glaiza Decastro, Ellen Adarna, and Kim Domingo.
#