Donald Trump has revoked the Washington Post‘s press credentials to his events, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee announced Monday.
“Based on the incredibly inaccurate coverage and reporting of the record setting Trump campaign, we are hereby revoking the press credentials of the phony and dishonest Washington Post,” he wrote in a Facebook post.
The Post’s executive editor Martin Baron said in a statement, “Donald Trump’s decision to revoke The Washington Post’s press credentials is nothing less than a repudiation of the role of a free and independent press. When coverage doesn’t correspond to what the candidate wants it to be, then a news organization is banished. The Post will continue to cover Donald Trump as it has all along—honorably, honestly, accurately, energetically, and unflinchingly. We’re proud of our coverage, and we’re going to keep at it.”
The decision is one in a series by Trump that have barred reporters from covering campaign events if he and his team see the outlet as “unfair” or critical of him.
In July, a reporter for the Des Moines Register was prevented from attending a campaign event after the paper ran a critical editorial about Trump. In October, journalists from Univision (whose anchor Jorge Ramos famously sparred with Trump) were kept out of an event in Florida. In November, a CNN reporter said campaign manager Corey Lewandowski told him he’d be “blacklisted” if he didn’t get back inside of a media pen at an event. A day later, a Buzzfeed reporter was denied access to an event. In January, a New York Times reporter was asked to leave an event (while other members of the press were allowed to stay). And in March, a Politico reporter was not permitted to attend a press conference at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago club.
It’s also not the first time Trump has taken aim at the Washington Post and its owner, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos. In a series of Tweets in December, Trump said, among other things, “The @washingtonpost, which loses a fortune, is owned by @JeffBezos for purposes of keeping taxes down at his no profit company, @amazon.” Bezos responded to the attack lightheartedly.
In a December interview, TIME asked Trump, “Could you assure that even news outlets that you feel are being very unfair to you will continue to have their credentials at the White House if you’re elected President?” He replied, “Oh yeah, I would do that. It doesn’t mean I’d be nice to them. I tend to do what I do. If people aren’t treating me right, I don’t treat them right.”
#
Donald Trump said Monday that he is pulling The Washington Post’s credentials to cover his events because he is upset with the newspaper’s coverage of his campaign. The move puts the newspaper on a long list of media outlets that the presumptive Republican nominee has banned for reporting that displeased him.
“Based on the incredibly inaccurate coverage and reporting of the record setting Trump campaign, we are hereby revoking the press credentials of the phony and dishonest Washington Post,” read a post on Trump’s Facebook page.
Another post said, “I am no fan of President Obama, but to show you how dishonest the phony Washington Post is, they wrote, ‘Donald Trump suggests President Obama was involved with Orlando shooting’ as their headline. Sad!”
Trump was referring to an article that posted online Monday morning that was headlined, “Donald Trump seems to connect President Obama to Orlando shooting.” The article was the most-read on The Post’s website at the time. Its original headline, which Trump accurately cited in his Facebook post, was changed about 90 minutes later. The newspaper changed it on its own, before Trump’s complaint.
Post editors were unsure Monday evening what Trump’s ban entailed. Editors learned of it from Facebook and have had no contact with Trump or his campaign aides.
In a statement, Post Executive Editor Martin Baron said: “Donald Trump’s decision to revoke The Washington Post’s press credentials is nothing less than a repudiation of the role of a free and independent press. When coverage doesn’t correspond to what the candidate wants it to be, then a news organization is banished.
“The Post will continue to cover Donald Trump as it has all along — honorably, honestly, accurately, energetically and unflinchingly,” Baron continued. “We’re proud of our coverage, and we’re going to keep at it.”
Trump has criticized The Post a number of times during the campaign. In a TV interview last month, he accused Amazon founder Jeffrey P. Bezos of using his ownership of The Post to deflect scrutiny of Amazon’s taxes and suggested he would launch an antitrust investigation of Amazon if he becomes president. Bezos denied Trump’s claims and said the comments weren’t “appropriate” for a presidential candidate.
Trump repeated his assertion about Amazon and The Post — for which he has presented no evidence — in a brief press statement on Monday:
“We no longer feel compelled to work with a publication which has put its need for ‘clicks’ above journalistic integrity,” the statement said. “They have no journalistic integrity and write falsely about Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump does not mind a bad story, but it has to be honest. The fact is, The Washington Post is being used by the owners of Amazon as their political lobbyist so that they don’t have to pay taxes and don’t get sued for monopolistic tendencies that have led to the destruction of department stores and the retail industry.”
In addition to its daily news coverage of Trump, The Post has a team of reporters and editors engaged in writing a book about Trump’s life and business career that will be published this summer.
It’s unusual for a candidate to ban a reporter, but Trump has done so repeatedly since he announced he was seeking the Republican nomination last June. Among the news organizations whose reporters have been blacklisted: Gawker, BuzzFeed, Foreign Policy, Politico, Fusion, Univision, Mother Jones, the New Hampshire Union Leader, the Des Moines Register, the Daily Beast and Huffington Post.
The bans, which have been erratically enforced and of seemingly arbitrary duration, typically mean a reporter from the affected news organization is barred from covering campaign events. Some banned reporters have entered his rallies on general-admission tickets. One of them — Ben Schreckinger of Politico — was escorted out of an event last week by campaign officials after he tried to report while in the crowd.
Schreckinger was also booted from Trump’s Florida mansion, Mar-a-Lago, in March after he sought to cover a news conference. However, Schreckinger has also periodically been able to secure credentials to Trump events.
BuzzFeed’s reporters have been consistently denied credentials and turned away by Trump since the start of the campaign, said Ben Smith, the news site’s editor. Smith said he believes the ban stems from an unflattering profile of Trump that BuzzFeed published in 2014. But the ban hasn’t deterred BuzzFeed’s reporting, he said. “They say access is a curse, and I’d put our coverage up against anyone’s,” Smith said.
#
U.S. Republican Donald Trump said on Monday he will no longer issue press credentials to the Washington Post, stopping the publication from gaining access to press areas at his presidential campaign events.
The Washington Post, based in the U.S. capital, is one the country's the most influential newspapers and has one of the largest circulations.
"They have no journalistic integrity and write falsely about Mr. Trump," his campaign said in a statement explaining the decision. "Mr. Trump does not mind a bad story, but it has to be honest."
Trump's campaign repeated criticism the candidate has made of Post owner Jeff Bezos, who also owns online retailer Amazon.com.
It is unusual for a presidential campaign to refuse to issue credentials to news organizations. Credentials are needed for reporters, photographers and other staff to gain access to press seating, travel with the campaign and attend media-only events, like press conferences.
"Donald Trump's decision to revoke The Washington Post's press credentials is nothing less than a repudiation of the role of a free and independent press," the newspaper's editor, Marty Baron, said in a statement.
"When coverage doesn't correspond to what the candidate wants it to be, then a news organization is banished. The Post will continue to cover Donald Trump as it has all along -- honorably, honestly, accurately, energetically, and unflinchingly. We're proud of our coverage, and we're going to keep at it."
A source close to the campaign said the ban could be temporary and pointed out that Trump has already barred other new organizations, including Politico, from obtaining press credentials and then reversed course.
Ben Smith, executive editor of Buzzfeed, responded that his news organization, which targets millennials, is also banned from covering official Trump events. The Huffington Post posted on Twitter that its reporters are also barred.
"A candidate for the highest elected office in the land doesn't get to choose what goes in a newspaper," said Committee to Protect Journalist Deputy Executive Director Robert Mahoney. "It provides a ready-made excuse for authoritarian leaders to crackdown further on independent journalists. We urge Donald Trump to reconsider and let the Washington Post do its job."
Trump's campaign took issue with an article that appeared on The Washington Post's website earlier on Monday with the headline, "Donald Trump suggests President Obama was involved with Orlando shooting' as their headline." The headline was changed to "Donald Trump seems to connect President Obama to Orlando shooting" within an hour after it was published.
The Washington Post has assigned a team of reporters to produce a book about Trump that is scheduled to be released later this year.