Relatives of the man who shot singer Christina Grimmie dead at a concert last night before killing himself have apologized for the murder in a note stuck to their front door.
Kevin James Lobil, 27, drove from his home in St Petersburg last night to a Grimmie concert in nearby Orlando armed with two handguns and a knife before opening fire as she signed autographs for fans, police say.
This afternoon a hastily-scribbled note was found pinned to the door of his house, which he shares with his parents, which says: 'Deepest sorrow for lost [sic] to the family, friends and fans of the very talented, loving Christina Grimmie. No other comments.' 
Meanwhile witness Destiny Rivera, 20, told Dailymail.com that she was standing behind the shooter as he walked over to Grimmie at a merchandise table after the gig.
Rivera said that Grimmie was standing with open arms waiting to give him a hug before he opened fire. 
While officers have not yet attributed a motive to the killing, Orlando police chief John Mina said it is 'looking like' Loibl was a deranged fan of the singer.
Grimmie had been performing as an opening act for band Before You Exit at The Plaza Live. The concert finished at 10pm and she was signing autographs at a merchandise table when Loibl approached.
Mina said that the 27-year-old gunman had traveled to Orlando from St Petersburg, around a two-hour drive away, specifically to kill Grimmie.
He said the suspect did not know her, despite coming to the concert armed with two handguns, extra magazines and a knife.
He added that Loibl had plans to travel home after the attack, but did not reveal how cops know this.
The venue where the concert was held has unarmed security guards who check bags and purses for weapons when people enter the building, but there are no metal detectors.  
#
Florida authorities answered one of the major questions in the shooting death of Christina Grimmie, the 22-year-old singer who made her name on NBC's "The Voice."
The man who killed her was Kevin James Loibl, 27, of St. Petersburg, Florida, according to Orlando police.
But they didn't give any background on Loibl or offer a possible motive.
A handwritten note is posted on Kevin James Loibl&#39;s family home in St. Petersburg, Florida.
A handwritten note is posted on Kevin James Loibl's family home in St. Petersburg, Florida.
CNN affiliate WFTS photographed a handwritten note posted on Loibl's family home. It reads, "Deepest sorrow for lost (sic) to the family, friends and fans of the very talented, loving Christina Grimmie. No other comments."
Grimmie was signing autographs late Friday after a show at The Plaza Live theater when a man approached and opened fire, police spokeswoman Wanda Miglio said.
She was rushed to a hospital, where she died.
Loibl fatally shot himself after the singer's brother, Marcus Grimmie, tackled him, police said in a statement. About 120 people were at the meet-and-greet, and the brother's quick action may have saved other lives, police said.
Marcus Grimmie paid tribute to the singer in a Facebook post, saying he has no words.
"Christina was more than my sister. She was a partner in life," he posted. " A superstar. A goofball. Introverted. And a friend to everyone. Genuinely. But above all...she was my baby sister."
The shooter had two handguns, two additional loaded magazines and a large hunting knife, police Chief John Mina said.
Mina said investigators were going through the man's computer, phone and other belongings to see whether they can find information about a motive. There's no evidence Grimmie and Loibl knew each other, police said.
Police said the suspect drove to Orlando, apparently to commit the crime, and "then had plans to travel back to where he came from."
It's unclear how the gunman got a gun into the venue or whether attendees were checked for weapons.
"We don't know if he was just a crazy fan that followed her on Twitter or on social media," Miglio said. "We really don't know ... it's undetermined at this point."
Security measures are in place at The Plaza Live, police say, but there are no metal detectors and people are not patted down.
"As far as security, The Plaza does have security guards who wear polo shirts. They are unarmed," Mina said. "They do check bags and purses as people enter."
The Plaza Live issued a statement extending condolences to the victims and indicating all activities and events have been suspended "until further notice."
"Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of those lost as well as those that witnessed and aided in the recovery after this senseless act," the statement said.
#
A gunman opened fire at a Florida concert venue as singer Christina Grimmie signed autographs for fans after a show, killing the onetime star of The Voice before shooting and killing himself, officials have said.
A publicist for Grimmie, Heather Walsh, said in an email early on Saturday that “we can confirm that Christina has passed and went home to be with the Lord”. The Orlando police department also confirmed on its official Twitter page that Grimmie had died.
Police said that the 22-year-old singer had performed with the band Before You Exit at The Plaza Live in Orlando. The concert ended about 10pm, and Grimmie was shot as she signed autographs for fans at a merchandise table.
Grimmie’s brother immediately tackled the gunman, who then shot and killed himself during the struggle, police said.
The gunman was not identified, and police have not said why he attacked the singer. An investigation is continuing, but police credited the singer’s brother with preventing the gunman from hurting others.
Grimmie, who was born in New Jersey, finished third during season six of the US series of The Voice, competing on the team of Maroon 5 star Adam Levine.
She began amassing a following on YouTube as a teenager, gripping online viewers with her powerful renditions of hit songs. Several of her videos on YouTube have garnered millions of views.
When reports of Grimmie’s death first surfaced, #PrayforChristina was the top trending hashtag on Twitter. After her death was confirmed, #RIPChristina became the top trending hashtag as Grimmie’s fans took to social media to express an outpouring of grief.
The Voice paid tribute to Grimmie on its official Twitter page: “There are no words. We lost a beautiful soul with an amazing voice.”
Grimmie had posted a video of herself shortly before the concert was scheduled to begin, encouraging fans to come see her perform.
Levine posted a photo of himself with Grimmie on Instagram, commenting before her death was confirmed: “I’m sad, shocked and confused. We love you so much Grimmie. We are all praying hard that you can pull through this ... this just isn’t fair.”
The Philadelphia Inquirer reported in 2014 that Grimmie moved to Los Angeles in 2012 after joining Selena Gomez on tour to focus on her singing career.
“I’m done being surprised by cool things she does. She’s very talented and she’s worked incredibly hard; it’s a dangerous combination,” her brother, Mark Grimmie, told the newspaper at the time.