"More support and funding for filmmakers." This is the highlight of the acceptance speech by Nora Aunor at the National Commission for the Culture and the Arts' Ani ng Dangal Awards at SM Aura in Taguig on Monday.
"I don't know why I feel so nervous right now as I can hardly see what I am reading because I am not getting younger anymore," she joked.
The Superstar said she also has plans of directing as well. " I am planning to direct my own movie so NCCA, I am going to need your help, " she said.
The annual Ani ng Dangal Awards recognizes artists who have earned international awards and accolades during the past year. It also serves as the closing activity of the NCCA’s celebration of National Arts Month.
Nora, who was honored for her work in the film "Dementia" at the 2nd Asean International Film Festival and Awards held in Malaysia (where she got the Lifetime Achievement Award) was one of this year's 83 recipients:
In the cinema category, the other awardees are: Cheri Gil, Aiko Melendez, Albert Chan Paran, Allen Dizon, Benjamin Tolentino, Brillante Mendoza, Carlo Enciso Catu, Epy Quizon, Emilio Garcia, Joseph Israel Laban, Jun Robles Lana, Lemuel Lorca, Sid Lucero, Liza Diño, LJ Reyes, Louie Ignacio, Micko Laurente, Ralston Javier and Richard Gomez.
GMA's Front Row was recognized for its episode "ALS," which won the Gold Camera Award at the 2015 US International Film and Video Festival.
Awardees in music inlude the Aleron Choir, Anna Tabita Abeleda-Piquero, Ateneo Chamber Singers, Boschorale, Imusicapella, Los Cantantes de Manila, Ryan Tamondong, Triple Fret, University of Visayas Chorale, University of the Philippines Concert Chorus, University of the Philippines Manila Chorale, University of Santo Tomas Singers, Acapellago and Kammerchor Manila.
In visual arts, the awardees were Ana Katrina Miranda, Ananda Wisely, Herbert Bagolbagol, Jamia Mei Tolentino, Jamille Bianca Aguilar, John Herrera, Jophel Botero Ybiosa, Maria Angelica Tejada, Mandy Javillonar, Robert Anton Aparante, Ruston Banal and Trisha Co Reyes. Christian Salandanan was recognized in the field of architecture and allied arts.
Professor Joey Tañedo, chairman of the NCCA's Visual Arts committee,  said that every year, the criteria in choosing awardees increase, as visual arts are no longer confined to just painting and sculptures. "Digital art, photography and avant-garde filmmaking play a major role in the expression of an individual," he said. "NCCA recognizes the exploration of these media and pay tribute to those artists who make it to the top in international competitions and make every Filipino proud."
#
Philippine cinema superstar Nora Aunor will lead the eighth Ani ng Dangal awardees of the National Commission for Culture and the Arts (NCCA) on Monday (February 29, 2016).
Ani ng Dangal is a state recognition by the NCCA in cooperation with the Sub-commission on the Arts, given to natural-born Filipino artists or groups that have brought honor to the country through international awards and accolades from the previous year.
Aunor, who is a veteran actress, recording artist, and film producer, will be recognized for the third time. Joining her are other awardees from the industry like Aiko Melendez, Allen Dizon, Brillante Mendoza, Cherrie Gil, Epy Quizon, Emilio Garcia, Liza Diño, LJ Reyes, Louie Ignacio, Richard Gomez, Ralston Javier, Rachelle Ann Go, Sid Lucero, and Bernardo Bernardo.
Makers of award-winning films Ang Huling Cha-Cha Ni Anita, Ari, Balikbayan #1, Bambanti, Boundary, Bwaya, Children Show, Dementia, Ekstra, In Nominee Matris, Kanlungan, K’na the Dreamweaver, Lihis, Mana, Magkakabaung, Paraiso, Princess Urduja, Purok 7, Red Lights, Ruined Heart, Sundalong Kanin, That Thing Called Tadhana, The Waves, Wawa and Yolanda will also be honored.
Awardees were chosen from seven art disciplines, namely Architecture and Allied Arts, Cinema, Dance, Dramatic Arts, Literary Arts, Music, and Visual Arts, including Multi-Disciplinary Arts.
Senator Loren Legarda will also grace the event as a keynote speaker.
The awarding ceremony will be held at the Samsung Hall of SM Aura in Taguig City, marking the culmination of the National Arts Month.
#
The National Commission for Culture and the Arts (NCCA) will honor awardees of the ‘Ani ng Dangal’ Awards led by no less than the Philippine cinema’s Superstar, Ms. Nora Aunor.
The awarding ceremony which will be held on February 29, 2016 at the Samsung Hall of SM Aura in Taguig, will cap of the celebration of the National Arts Month Celebration.
The Ani ng Dangal (Harvest of Honors) Awards recognizes artists who have earned international awards and accolades during the past year.
In a press conference Thursday, NCCA revealed that 83 artists and works from different fields of the arts will be awarded - one for architecture and allied arts, one for broadcast arts, 45 for cinema, seven for dance, three for dramatic arts, 14 for music, and 12 for visual arts will be honored by NCCA headed by chairman Prof. Felipe M. de Leon, Jr. and OIC- executive director Adelina Suemith.
Ms. Aunor received the Lifetime Achievement Award at the 2015 ASEAN International Film Festival and Awards on April 11, 2015, at the Borneo Convention Centre sa Kuching, Malaysia. At the same awards, Cherie Gil won the Best Actress honor for her performance in the film Sonata, and thus, will also receive an Ani ng Dangal award in the field of cinema, together with Aunor.
Other actors to be honored for cinema include Aiko Melendez, Albert Chan Paran, Allen Dizon, Benjamin Tolentino, Brillante Mendoza, Carlo Enciso Catu, Epy Quizon, Emilio Garcia, Joseph Israel Laban, Jun Robles Lana, Lemuel Lorca, Sid Lucero, Liza Diño, LJ Reyes, Louie Ignacio, Micko Laurente, Ralston Javier and Richard Gomez.
Also to be honored are the makers of award-winning films: Ang Huling Cha-Cha Ni Anita, Ari, Balikbayan #1, Bambanti, Boundary, Bwaya, Children Show, Dementia, Ekstra, In Nominee Matris, Kanlungan, K’na, the Dreamweaver, Lihis, Mana, Magkakabaung, Paraiso, Princess Urduja, Purok 7, Red Lights, Ruined Heart, Sundalong Kanin, That Thing Called Tadhana, The Waves, Wawa and Yolanda.
GMA 7’s Front Row will be feted in the broadcast arts category, while Bernardo Bernardo, Jhett Tolentino and Rachelle Ann Go will be recognized in the field of dramatic arts.
In the field of dance, the Bayanihan National Folkdance Company, Halili-Cruz School of Ballet, Jamaica France Jornacion and Lawrence Santiago, Klivert John Mendoza, Sayawatha and Upeepz enthralled international audiences with their grace, choreography and skills, earning them accolades as well as this year’s Ani ng Dangal awards.
In the field of music, the Aleron Choir, Anna Tabita Abeleda-Piquero, Ateneo Chamber Singers, Boschorale, Imusicapella, Los Cantantes de Manila, Ryan Tamondong, Triple Fret, University of Visayas Chorale, University of the Philippines Concert Chorus, University of the Philippines Manila Chorale, University of Santo Tomas Singers, Acapellago and Kammerchor Manila will be recognized for their international achievements.
For visual arts, Ana Katrina Miranda, Ananda Wisely, Herbert Bagolbagol, Jamia Mei Tolentino, Jamille Bianca Aguilar, John Herrera, Jophel Botero Ybiosa, Maria Angelica Tejada, Mandy Javillonar, Robert Anton Aparante, Ruston Banal and Trisha Co Reyes showed Filipino artistic excellence in the world, as well as Christian Salandanan in the field of architecture and allied arts.
The Ani ng Dangal Exhibit will also be mounted during the awards night, paying tribute to the awardees’ achievements and contributions by displaying their works and trophies. (NCCA/RJB/JEG/PIA-NCR) 
#