German Moreno, who is known in the showbiz industry as "Master Showman," has passed away from cardiac arrest at 3:20 a.m. on Friday. He was 82 years old.
Moreno's death came a year after he had a stroke.
John Nite, Moreno's nephew and co-host in GMA 7's "Walang Tulugan with the Master Showman," announced the news through a statement he sent to GMA News Online.
"He passed on in the company of his family and friends. He lived a full life, touched so many hearts through the years, and helped make dreams come true for most of the biggest stars in the Philippine entertainment industry," he said.
"We are deeply saddened by his passing but we are comforted by the thought that his legacy will live on," he added.
Moreno or Kuya Germs, as he is called by friends and fans, was known for his loyalty and professionalism.
It was in January 2015 that Kuya Germs was hospitalized after suffering from a stroke and he had to rest for several months.
He returned to host "Walang Tulugan" last June 2015.
Moreno was known as a star builder in his youth oriented show in the 1980s called "That's Entertainment" for aspiring actors, dancers and singers. Many of the show's "graduates" became popular artists including Lea Salonga, Manilyn Reynes, Gladys Reyes, Judy Ann Santos, Janno Gibbs, Billy Crawford, Donna Cruz, Ramon Christopher, and Lotlot de Leon.
He also initiated the "Walk of Fame" in Eastwood, Quezon City, which is the local counterpart of the "Walk of Fame" in Hollywood, USA to recognize artists, broadcasters, singers and others who made significant contributions to the showbiz industry.
Kuya Germs had humble beginnings. He started as a utility worker at the once popular Clover Theater in Manila in the 1950s. He became a stage actor and later a film star.
In 2013, Kuya Germs celebrated his 50th year in the showbiz industry.
#
Popular TV host German "Kuya Germs" Moreno died early Friday, January 8, according to reports. He was 82.
Moreno suffered a mild stroke last year.
GMA Network issued a statement past 9 am on the death of Kuya Germs.
"GMA Network deeply mourns with the entire entertainment industry the passing of our beloved German 'Kuya Germs' Moreno.
"The Master Showman will be greatly missed by his friends and fans both here and abroad, especially those in show business, where he devoted the best years of his life. Kuya Germs was responsible for building the careers of the biggest stars we now have. The epitome of a loyal Kapuso, his dedication to the industry will serve as an inspiration to all. We pray for his eternal repose."
Manila Vice Mayor Francisco Domagoso, more popularly known as Isko Moreno and one of the host's protégés in showbiz, expressed his grief over Kuya Germs' death.
"He opened the doors for me and to be honest, wala ho sigurong Isko Moreno ngayon kung walang Kuya Germs," the vice mayor said in a statement. "Wala akong ka talent talent noon sa pagkanta o pagsayaw but he took a risk on me, at yun ang naging susi ko upang maiahon ko ang sarili at pamilya ko sa kahirapan."
(There would be no Isko Moreno today if not for Kuya Germs. I had no talent in singing or dancing but he took a risk on me, and this was my ticket out of poverty.)
Other celebrities expressed sadness over the showbiz icon's death. (READ: Stars mourn death of German 'Kuya Germs' Moreno)
Before his death, Kuya Germs hosted Walang Tulugan with the Master Showman, a late-night variety show.
He is known for hosting GMA supershow, That's Entertainment, and has appeared in many TV shows and films. 
#
After the news of German “Kuya Germs” Moreno’s passing, prominent comedian and TV host of popular program ‘‘Walang Tulugan,’’ celebrities took to social media on Friday to express their grief over the death of one of the country’s showbiz icons.
Singer Regine Velasquez-Alcasid shared a photo on her Instagram account of Moreno, with his hands shaped like a heart, with a caption: “Thank you Kuya Germs we will miss you.” Velasquez-Alcasid also cited a Bible verse saying: “You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden.”
Meanwhile, actor Kristoffer Martin took to Twitter to express his gratitude to Moreno who was credited for developing and producing some of the country’s biggest stars through his former TV show ‘That’s Entertainment.’’ Martin on his post said: “You left us with your wisdom. And that we will keep til we meet again. Salamat tay (Thank you, father). Paalam (Goodye), kuya Germs.”
Actor Rocco Nacino also took to Twitter to voice his condolences over Moreno’s death. Nacino posted: “Rest in Peace Kuya Germs. You lived a long, full life. I am very glad and honored to have met you. Condolences to the Moreno family.”
On her Twitter post, actress Bea Binene recognized Moreno’s contributions to the showbiz industry. Binene posted: “Woke up to a very sad news. Maraming salamat po sa lahat ng tulong at nagawa mo para sa industriyang ito (Thank you very much for all your help and contributions to this industry). Mahal ka namin (We love you), Kuya Germs.”
Amid the mourning of the local industry, celebrity host KC Montero chose to focus on the positive side of Moreno’s passing. Montero posted on his Twitter account: “You can finally sleep now Kuya Germs. Heaven welcomes The Master Showman. #respect”
According to a Radyo Inquirer report, Moreno died on Friday around 3.20 a.m. due to cardiac arrest. He was 82. Last year, Moreno suffered a mild stroke but recovered and went back to hosting his programs on television and radio.
