Incoming president Rodrigo Duterte is ready to work with Congress to implement nationwide the curfew for minors, liquor ban, and no-smoking ordinances he has enforced as mayor of this city. 
When asked what would be his first order as president, Duterte replied, "The very fundamentals of society – curfew, no drinking beyond 1 o’clock." 
"I’ll ask if I would need a national law. If I have the authority under the broad police power of the state, maybe I can (implement them). But if it is inadequate legally, I will ask Congress (to pass a law)," Duterte said in a press briefing Saturday night here. 
"Why should we drink until 2 a.m.? Is this a drinking contest?" he added. 
Duterte said he wants to implement the liquor ban because employees of establishments like waiters, cooks and cashiers also need to rest. 
He said he would also prohibit smoking in public places.   
"They say that they are using their money for the cigarettes. Look, if you’re not an idiot, you know that when you smoke in enclosed restaurants or offices, you pass off cancer to others," the incoming president said. 
"It’s not fair for you to distribute cancer. It is scientifically proven beyond doubt that it (smoking) causes cancer," he added.
Duterte implemented the no-smoking, liquor ban and curfew ordinances during his more than 20- year stint as mayor.
#
Citing the need to restore public order and security, president-elect Rodrigo Duterte said he would impose a curfew on minors and would press local government units to stamp out noisy karaoke sessions.
"Curfew for minors mandatory," said Duterte during a press conference on Monday, May 16, in Davao City.
Because minors cannot be arrested based on the law, Duterte said police would be instructed to arrest the parents instead for the charge of "abandonment of minors, putting the life of minors in jeopardy," he said.
Police who are not able to do this may face suspension for "neglect of duty."
Duterte, as a 7-term Davao City mayor, has imposed a similar ordinance in his hometown. In Davao City, those who are 18 years old and below are not allowed to loiter in the streets between 10 pm to 5 am unless accompanied by their parents or a guardian of legal age.
Duterte has maintained that he implements the ordinance in order to "protect the children."
He would be equally strict about implementing a liquor ban in public places.
"No drinking in all public places. If you do not have a house then do not drink, do not make it a fixture of a place," he said.
"The police must arrest all drinking people in public, alcoholic. Do not occupy streets," he added.
Like his planned curfew for minors, the liquor ban takes inspiration from local legislation in Davao City. At first, the ordinance was severely criticized by businessmen who own drinking establishments. But nowadays, the liquor ban has become an accepted part of Davao City life.
Though Duterte was not as categorical about what he would do about karaoke sessions, he said local officials would do well to stamp out such a practice.
To stress his point, the president-elect gave his own rendition of "My Way," a popular karaoke song.
"You disturb the neighborhood…Noise pollution can be abated anytime because it is a nuisance. A barangay captain or mayor or governor or the police can stop it immediately. No need for a court order because that is a nuisance which can be summarily stopped," he said.
Davao City also started implementing a ban on late-night karaoke sessions after Duterte received complaints about it from citizens.
#
The Cebu provincial board approved on Monday, May 23, the resolution supporting a 10 pm curfew for minors, effective June 30, when the new set of elected officials start their term.
The provincial board passed the local resolution supporting incoming President Rodrigo Duterte's plan to impose the same restriction on minors nationwide. (READ: Duterte: Curfew for minors in, late-night karaoke out)
District 1 board member Julian Daan presided the session, where the resolution was approved unanimously.
Arleigh Sitoy, representative of District 6, sponsored the resolution "strongly supporting the imposition of curfew for minors in the Philippines."
The resolution states that "minors do not have any reason to stay in the streets beyond 10 in the evening unless they are accompanied by their parents and relatives for certain occasion."
The resolution also stated that "at this time (10 pm onwards), some minors can be spotted drinking with their peers and some are alarmingly smoking marijuana or, worse, other illegal substances."
Sun Shimura, District 4 representative and chairman of the peace and order committee, agreed to co-sponsor the resolution.
"I support the resolution since minors right now, they are the ones being used by syndicates to sell drugs and to steal," Shimura told Rappler via phone interview.
"While there is no ordinance in the province regarding curfew, if this becomes a law, we will be pushing this province wide," Shimura added.
Sitoy, who was absent from Monday's session, had also filed a resolution supporting the reimposition of death penalty. It was deferred for voting as no other provincial board member agreed to co-sponsor the resolution.
#