Fresh from college, a 23-year-old information technology graduate admitted that he hacked the Commission on Elections (Comelec) website, leading to the biggest leak of personal data in Philippine history.
The suspect was arrested on Wednesday evening, April 20, in his house in Sampaloc, Manila.
Comelec Chairman Andres Bautista confirmed on Thursday, April 21, that the suspect remains in the custody of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI).
Bautista refused to disclose the suspect’s identity until charges have been filed against him.
Possible cases against the hacker include a violation of the Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012.
Before a news conference on the arrest, journalists saw the alleged hacker being escorted out of a media briefing room at the NBI at past 11 am on Thursday.
The suspect’s head was covered with a black handkerchief as men purported to be NBI personnel shielded him from reporters.
Ronald Aguto Jr, chief of the NBI cybercrime division, said the suspect was arrested Wednesday evening, April 20, in his house on the basis of a search warrant.
Aguto said the suspect didn’t admit committing the crime at first. Initially, the NBI official said, "he opted actually to remain silent."
Now, Aguto said, "He’s very cooperative and I think he has the intention of helping the agency."
The NBI official added that based on their investigation, the suspect just wanted to show the "vulnerability" of the Comelec website. He said he has "no intention to harm."
The suspect said he only wanted to ensure that the Comelec will implement the security features of vote-counting machines (VCMs), Bautista said.
"We assured him na lahat ng security features na nakasaad sa ating automated election law ay ipapatupad nitong 2016 elections. Sabi ko, hindi naman niya kailangang mag-hack. Sana kung nagsulat na lang siya at sinulat niya sa amin 'yon ay masasagot naman namin kaagad yung kanyang hinaing," Bautista said.
(I told him and assured him that all security features stated in our automated election law will be implemented in the 2016 elections. I told him that he didn’t need to do the hacking. If he just wrote us and addressed the letter to us, we would have immediately addressed his concerns.)
Bautista said the suspected hacker has two accomplices whom he met through social media.
His accomplices remain at large.
#
The National Bureau of Investigation on Thursday announced the arrest of a suspect in the hacking of the Commission on Elections public information website.
The suspect, a 20-year-old IT graduate, may face charges for violating the Anti-Cybercrime Act.
Comelec Chairman Andres Bautista and NBI Director Virgilio Mendez announce the arrest of a suspect in the Comelec website hacking. Zyann Ambrosio, ABS-CBN News
In a press conference, Comelec Chairman Andres Bautista said the hacker admitted that he defaced the Comelec website.
"Gusto raw niya siguraduhin lahat ng security features ay ipapatupad ng Comelec. We assured him na lahat ng security features na sa election law ay ipapatupad," Bautista said.
He added: "Iba yung gagamiting website sa resulta (ng halalan). Ang na-hack ay yung public information website."
Bautista assured the public that the hacking incident will not affect the automated nationwide elections. He said the defacement only affected several features of the Comelec website such as the precinct finder.
NBI Director Virgilio Mendez said the agency will apply for a series of search warrants for the remaining hackers. The NBI Cybercrime Division is also investigating if the hacker is involved in the defacement of other government websites.
Hackers from Anonymous Philippines defaced the Comelec website last March 27. In the message posted on the website, the group criticized the poll body for rejecting some of the security features of the automated polls.
Trend Micro, a global security software company, earlier said the personal data of 1.3 million overseas Filipino voters, including their passport information, as well as fingerprints of 15.8 million people were compromised in the hacking of the Comelec site.
It said the data dump "may turn out as the biggest government related data breach in history."
"Based on our investigation, the data dumps include 1.3 million records of overseas Filipino voters, which included passport numbers and expiry dates. What is alarming is that this crucial data is just in plain text and accessible for everyone. Interestingly, we also found a whopping 15.8 million record of fingerprints and list of peoples running for office since the 2010 elections," Trend Micro said.
It added that among the data leaked online by hackers were files on all candidates running in the election "with the filename VOTESOBTAINED."
"Based on the filename, it reflects the number of votes obtained by the candidate. Currently, all VOTESOBTAINED file are set to have NULL as figure," the security software company said. "The Comelec website also shows real time ballot count during the actual elections. While Comelec claims that this function will be done using a different website, we can only speculate if actual data will be placed here during the elections and if tampering with the data would affect the ballot count."
It warned that criminals can use the leaked personal information of Filipino voters for extortion and other illegal activities. "In previous cases of data breach, stolen data has been used to access bank accounts, gather further information about specific persons, used as leverage for spear phishing emails or BEC [Business Email Compromise] schemes, blackmail or extortion, and much more.
During the press briefing, Bautista said the Comelec has formed a technical working group to study the possible recovery of any data compromised by the hack.
#
Paul Biteng, the 20-year-old Information Technology graduate accused of hacking the Commission on Elections (Comelec) website, faces a maximum of 60 years in jail if he is found guilty of violating the Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012.
Biteng was arrested on Apr 20 by the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) at his family's home in Sampaloc, Manila, for allegedly hacking the Comelec website last month.
On Mon, Apr 25, the Manila Prosecutor’s Office deemed that there was probable cause to approve the filing of three charges against Biteng — illegal access, data interference, and misuse of device.
"Chief Inquest Prosecutor Jovencio Senados explained that although each alleged offense carries a jail term ranging from six to 12 years, the penalty may be hiked by the judge trying the case to 20 years per offense since the crime committed involved a 'critical infrastructure,'" reports Aie Balagtas See in Philippine Daily Inquirer.
Senados further stated, "When you commit a crime against critical infrastructures, the penalty will go [up] one degree higher. The Comelec is considered a critical infrastructure, especially now during the election period."
The report noted: "Biteng, however, may be freed temporarily should he be able to post bail at PHP200,000 per offense.
Biteng, who is said to be a member of the hacking group Anonymous Philippines, admitted hacking the Comelec website with the aim of exposing its weaknesses. However, he emphasized that he was not responsible for the data leak that exposed the information of millions of voters. He claimed that the leak was done by two other hackers he met online.
#