THE anti-graft court junked on Wednesday the pending criminal cases filed against the late Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona.
In a decision, the Sandiganbayan Third Division said that the government prosecutors no longer raised any opposition on the previous motion filed by Corona’s camp to dismiss the existing charges of perjury and violation of the Code of Conduct against Corona following his death last April.
Corona's legal team in its motion to dismiss cited Rule 111 of the Rules of Court, wherein “the death of the accused after arraignment and during the pendency of the criminal action shall extinguish the civil liability.”
Corona, 67, succumbed to heart attack due diabetes complications last April 28.
Last year, the anti-graft division indicted Corona over his alleged failure to disclose some of his properties and bank accounts in his statement assets, liabilities, and Net Worth (SALN) in 2012.
The same year, the Senate sitting as an impeachment court removed him from his post after he was found guilty for betraying public trust and committing culpable violation of the Constitution for having undeclared wealth.
Corona's lawyer Reody Anthony Balisi said that they welcome the decision of the anti-graft division. However, it is not the way the late Chief Justice would have wanted the cases to end.
“Chief Justice Corona would have wanted to see his vindication of the accusations on our firm belief that he's innocent,” said Balisi.
Balisi said that they still believed that Corona is innocent and was just a victim of political vindictiveness of the President Benigno Aquino III following the SC’s earlier ruling to finally distribute the Hacienda Luisita to the farmers.
#
The Sandiganbayan on Wednesday dismissed the perjury and violation of the code of conduct cases against the late Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona on the ground of his death.
In a hearing before the Sandiganbayan Third Division, the prosecution panel no longer raised any objection on the motion of Corona’s legal team to dismiss eight counts of perjury under the Revised Penal Code (RPC) and another eight counts of violation of Republic Act 6713 or the Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards for Public Officials and Employees filed by the Office of the Ombudsman against the former magistrate in April 2014.
The cases stemmed from Corona’s alleged misdeclaration of assets in his Statement of Assets, Liabilities and Net Worth (SALN) from 2001 to 2011.
“In view of the death of the accused and with the prosecution having no objection on the motion, the motion to dismiss the cases against accused Renato Corona is hereby granted,” Third Division chairman Presiding Justice Amparo Cabotaje-Tang said.
The Court also ordered the release of the P160,000 bail bond that Corona posted last year in exchange for his provisional liberty from the cases.
Corona, 67, succumbed to cardiac arrest at The Medical City in Pasig City on April 29, after years of battling diabetes.
In a motion filed before the Third Division on Friday last week, Corona’s legal team pointed out that under Section 4, Rule 111 the Rules of Court, “the death of the accused after arraignment and during the pendency of the criminal action shall extinguish the civil liability arising from the delicit.”
Corona’s camp also invoked Article 89 of the Revised Penal Code (RPC) which states that the death of an accused before a final judgment is reached "totally extinguishes his supposed criminal and civil liabilities."
While thankful for the dismissal of the cases, Corona’s legal counsel Reody Anthony Balisi reiterated that the late magistrate was innocent of the charges and that their camp is confident of his acquittal had the cases reach final judgement.
"This is not the way we, or Chief Justice Corona, would have wanted these cases dismissed. Had he not passed on, Chief Justice Corona would have wanted to see his vindication of the accusations against him on our firm belief that he is innocent of the charges against him," Balisi said.
"But because of his untimely demise we are constrained to move for the dismissal of these cases on the ground that his death extinguishes his criminal and civil liabilities," he added.
Earlier this month, the Court of Tax Appeals (CTA) also dismissed multiple counts of tax evasion cases against Corona following his death.
Meanwhile, Corona’s widow Cristina asked the Supreme Court to order the dismissal of the P130-million civil forfeiture case against them pending before the Sandiganbayan Second Division.
Filed by the Ombudsman in March 2014, the P130.59-million civil forfeiture case against the Corona couple stemmed from their alleged ill-gotten wealth from 2001 to 2011.
The case was an offshoot of an impeachment trial against Corona over the former magistrate’s alleged misdeclarations in his SALNS.
In 2012, the Senate, sitting as an impeachment court, has convicted Corona for betrayal of public trust and culpable violation of the Constitution over non-declaration of several assets, including real estate properties in his SALNs, causing his removal from the Supreme Court.
In a privilege speech in 2013, Sen. Jinggoy Estrada bared that he and his fellow senators who voted in favor of Corona's conviction were given an additional P50 million each by the Aquino administration.
#
The lawyers of the late Chief Justice Renato Corona on Monday filed a motion to dismiss the perjury charges against the deceased magistrate for false declarations of wealth.
In his motion to dismiss filed before the anti-graft court Third Division, the lawyers of Corona said the latter’s death “totally extinguishes his supposed criminal and civil liabilities.”
The court has yet to release its resolution finding probable cause to hold Corona on trial.
Corona’s lawyers cited the rules of criminal procedures which state that upon the death of the accused before arraignment, the case will be dismissed without prejudice to a civil action against the estate of the deceased.
“Considering the foregoing, and in view of the untimely demise of accused, a fact which was reported in the news and media, and is requested to be made of judicial notice, undersigned counsel respectfully pray that this Honorable Court dismisses the instant cases against the accused,” Corona’s motion said.
The motion was signed by his lawyers Magilyn Loja and Reody Anthony Balisi.
Corona, who battled diabetes, died of cardiac arrest on April 29. He was 67.
