Veteran actress-singer Sharon Cuneta is excited to be one of the coaches on the third season of "The Voice Kids."
Cuneta will replace Sarah Gernomino, who earlier explained that she wants to concentrate on "ASAP" and hone her talents as an artist.
Cuneta said she is thrilled to join fellow coaches Lea Salonga and Bamboo.
"Sobrang excited ako. I will be part of 'The Voice Kids' with, of course, Bamboo and Lea Salonga," she told ABS-CBN News during her renewal of vows with husband Francis Pangilinan.
But Cuneta's surprises do not end there.
She also teased her fans that she will have a "really big" surprise for them this year. This, she said, is the reason why she has not been active on social media for quite a while.
"To all my supporters and fans, my Sharonians whom I love very much, alam kong ang tagal kong nawala sa Facebook, 'di ba? Sadya po 'yon. I have been hibernating," she said.
"I've been hiding because I have been working on myself para i-surprise kayo. Hindi pa ako tapos but I have lost a lot of weight, preparing for something really big."
When asked to spill some details, she just said: "It is a huge, huge surprise na hindi pa talagang puwedeng i-announce. Pero ang masasabi ko lang po, kumapit po kayo ng mahigpit na mahigpit," she added.
#
A new coach is coming in the third season of “The Voice Kids Philippines.”
As Sarah Geronimo bids goodbye to focus on being a performer, Sharon Cuneta will be welcomed in the show's new season.
“Sobrang excited ako!” said the Megastar in an interview with ABS-CBN News. “I will be part of ‘The Voice Kids,’ of course [with] Bamboo and Lea Salonga."
Before being part of this show, Sharon has been one of the judges in the two seasons of “Your Face Sounds Familiar.”
Aside from “The Voice Kids Philippines,” the Megastar also announced that she’s gearing up for a “really big” project.
“I have been working on myself para i-surprise kayo,” she said. “Hindi pa ako tapos but I have lost a lot of weigh, preparing for something really big.”
#
It's official. Megastar Sharon Cuneta is the new coach for the upcoming season of The Voice Kids.
Sharon confirmed the news in an interview with ABS-CBN, Monday, May 2.
"One of the first surprises for you is [that] I will be part of The Voice Kids with – of course – Bamboo and Ms. Lea Salonga, and I can't wait to be with them and to be with the kids and to be with you every week," she said.
Sharon posted a photo of the Voice Kids set on her Instagram account.
Sharon also said that she has taken some time off Facebook as she has been "working on [herself]."
"To all my supporters and fans, my Sharonians whom I love very much, alam kong ang tagal kong nawala sa Facebook, 'di ba? (I know I was inactive in Facebook right?)" she wrote.
“Sadya po yun (It was really on purpose). I have been hibernating. I've been in hiding because I have been working on myself para i-surprise kayo."
She added, "Hindi pa ako tapos (I'm not yet finished) but I have lost quite a lot of weight, preparing for something really big."
Sharon is replacing singer Sarah Geronimo who announced that she will not return this season to concentrate on other projects such as ASAP and concerts.
She is currently helping husband Kiko Pangilinan's campaign for the senate and was last seen as a judge in Your Face Sounds Sounds Familiar.
#