Labeling it a hate crime, the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) denounced the deadly attack that killed 50 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida.
“While we may have reasons to disagree with sexual preferences, or reprove certain forms of sexual activity, this can never justify hatred, let alone, murder of another human being,” CBCP president Lingayen-Dagupan Archbishop Socrates Villegas said in a statement Monday evening, June 13.
Villegas explained that this was a hate crime because this was “the murder of persons because of disgust for their sexual orientation.”
“Bearing in the depth of his or her soul the image of the Creator, no human person should ever be the object of disgust,” he said.
Villegas was echoing a Catholic teaching that while homosexual acts remain sinful, homosexual persons deserve respect like everyone else.
In his statement, Villegas added that “we can and should never reconcile ourselves with violence in society — whether this be the violence of lawless elements, the violence of the self-righteous, the violence of vigilante groups, or the violence of government.”
Violence ‘in the name of law and order’
“We cannot and should not accept a society that tolerates and perhaps even foments forms of violence, even if this should be in the name of restoring law and order,” the archbishop said.
He then urged school administrators and youth leaders “to be particularly vigilant about cases of bullying, ostracism, and harassment.”
“We urge government to educate the nation in the ways of the respect for all life,” Villegas added.
His appeal comes as the incoming administration of President-elect Rodrigo Duterte vows peace and order even through bloody means, such as killing drug pushers who resist arrest.
Villegas said the Orlando tragedy “makes clear how much the world needs mercy.”
Pope Francis earlier condemned the Orlando attack as “homicidal folly and senseless hatred.”
The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) has claimed it was behind Sunday's carnage at the Pulse nightclub, the worst mass shooting in modern US history.
#
President Barack Obama will travel to Orlando on Thursday to pay respects to the victims of last weekend’s nightclub shooting and to stand in solidarity with the community as it embarks on recovery, the White House said Monday night.
Press Secretary Josh Earnest did not provide more details about the trip. Obama had canceled what was to be his first campaign event with presumptive Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in the wake of the shooting at a gay nightclub that killed 49 and wounded dozens more. That event was scheduled for Wednesday.
The role of consoler-in-chief is not a new one for Obama, who has traveled to Newtown, Connecticut, Charleston, South Carolina, and among other places to meet with families who have lost loved ones to gun violence.
Obama has called the Orlando shooting an act of terrorism and an act of hate. He noted that the site of the shooting was more than a nightclub, calling it a place where people came to raise awareness, speak their minds and advocate for their civil rights.
Earlier Monday, Obama said the gunman was inspired by extremist information over the internet, calling it an apparent example of “homegrown extremism” that US officials have been worrying about for years.
Obama, speaking in the Oval Office after meeting with the FBI director, said the attack appears similar to the shooting late last year in San Bernardino, California, though he added that “we don’t yet know.” Investigators in that attack determined the killers weren’t directed from overseas but were at least partly inspired by the Islamic State group.
“At this stage, we see no clear evidence that he was directed externally,” Obama said, referring to suggestions that the Islamic State group or other extremists had orchestrated the attack. “It does appear that at the last minute, he announced allegiance to ISIL,” he said, using an acronym for the extremist group.
He said the probe was being treated as a terror investigation and said investigators were examining materials from the internet that the shooter may have consumed.
Obama said investigators are still looking into the motivations of the shooter and considering all possibilities. He said gays and lesbians are targeted by organizations like IS, al-Qaida and others because of their “vicious, bankrupt ideology” and their religious beliefs about homosexuality.
“The fact that it took place at a club frequented by the LGBT community I think is also relevant,” Obama said.
Obama spoke after getting briefed on the investigation by FBI Director James Comey, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and other officials.
#
The American gunman who killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in Orlando twice performed a minor Islamic pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia, the interior ministry said on Monday.
“He performed umrah twice,” a ministry spokesman said of Omar Mateen, 29, who was of Afghan descent.
Mateen performed the minor umrah pilgrimage for 10 days in March 2011 and again for eight days in March 2012, the ministry spokesman told AFP.
He gave no further details.
CNN, citing an unnamed US official, said Mateen had also visited the United Arab Emirates.
The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) group, which has also claimed attacks within Saudi Arabia, said Mateen was acting as one of its “soldiers” in Sunday’s rampage.
It was the worst mass shooting in modern US history.
Mateen died in a gun battle with police.
FBI chief James Comey said he was confident the gunman had been “radicalized” while consuming online propaganda, and there was no indication of a plot directed from outside the United States.
Saudi Arabia is the birthplace of Islam and home to its holiest sites.
The annual hajj and the umrah pilgrimage, which can be performed at any time, bring millions of Muslims to the kingdom every year.
Hilary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic party nominee for US president, on Monday accused Saudi Arabia and its neighbors of allowing extremism to thrive.
“It is long past time for the Saudis, the Qataris, and the Kuwaitis and others to stop their citizens from funding extremist organizations,” Clinton said in a speech.
“And they should stop supporting radical schools and mosques around the world that have set too many young people on a path toward extremism.”
Saudi Arabia has repeatedly denounced bombings and shootings carried out in various countries by the Islamic State group and other extremists.
#