De La Salle University finally brought back the crown to Taft after dismantling the erstwhile back-to-back defending champion Ateneo de Manila University, 19-25, 25-21, 25-16, 25-16 at the Smart Araneta Coliseum on Saturday.
The Lady Spikers relied on their solid blocking in the final set to neutralize Lady Eagles’ main weapon and three-time MVP Alyssa Valdez.
Finals MVP Kim Dy put the nail in the coffin with an off-the-block attack to give the Taft-based squad their ninth title since joining the league in 1986.
Interestingly, Ateneo never won a match inside the Araneta Coliseum in their five meetings with La Salle  this season. On the other hand, Lady Spikes never lost back-to-back matches.
Veteran Ara Galang played her final year, along with Mika Reyes and Cyd Demecillo.
Meanwhile, Valdez finished her brilliant collegiate career with two titles and three consecutive MVP plums.
#
The La Salle Lady Spikers took home their ninth championship trophy of the University Athletic Association of the Philippines (UAAP) women’s volleyball tournament after getting the better of rivals the Ateneo Lady Eagles, 19-25, 25-21, 25-16, 25-16, on Saturday (April 30) at the SMART Araneta Coliseum.
Kim Kianna Dy paced the Lady Spikers with 17 markers, while MaJoy Baron chipped in with 11.
The reigning MVP Alyssa Valdez picked up where she left off in Game 2 of the series, powering the Lady Eagles to a 10-1 lead in the very first set.
The Lasallians eventually found their groove later on in the set, but failed to prevent their rivals from taking set 1, 25-19.
The second frame saw La Salle go on a run of their own and created a 16-10 cushion. But the Ateneo Lady Eagles clawed their way back to draw level at 19-all.
The run proved to be short-lived as the Lady Spikers stopped the bleeding and walked away with set 2, 25-21.
La Salle fully got into their groove in the third set, as they rushed to an 8-4 lead by the first technical timeout. Ateneo could not stem the tide, as the Lasallians went one set away from the championship.
Unlike Game 2, there was no more spectacular comeback from Ateneo, who trailed by as much as 21-9 in the fourth set. Valdez tried to will back her side into the game, but ultimately fell short as La Salle took the decisive frame, 25-16.
Valdez finished the game with 31 points in her final game for the Lady Eagles.
After the game, La Salle coach Ramil De Jesus could not hide the pride he felt at watching his players claim their winners medals.
“Very proud ako sa kanila. Since after Season 77, nakita nila kung gaano kasakit na matalo,” said De Jesus. “Nag-exert kami sa training the whole year. Pinaghandaan talaga nila, nakatatak sa puso nila, sa isip nila 'yung dapat nilang gawin.”
“Itong year na ito, talagang hindi sila magpapatalo.”
#
De La Salle University’s Lady Spikers have reclaimed its throne in the UAAP women’s volleyball division, ending the two-year reign of Ateneo de Manila University’s Lady Eagles on Saturday afternoon (April 30, 2016) in a do-or-die game held at the Smart Araneta Coliseum.
With a 19-25, 25-21, 25-16, and 25-16 record, the Lady Spikers emerged victorious against the defending champion.
La Salle dominated Ateneo in 2012 and 2013 before Ateneo turned the tide in 2014 and 2015. Now on their final year, Ara Galang, Mika Reyes, and Cyd Demecillo will be leaving the Season 78 volleyball title to their team, which is also the ninth title of La Salle in the UAAP.
Kim Dy was also hailed as the Finals MVP, while Ateneo’s star player Alyssa Valdez remains as the Season’s MVP.
#
