It's official: actors Baron Geisler and Kiko Matos will settle their beef inside the mixed martial arts cage at Universal Reality Combat Championship's June 25 event at Valkyrie at The Palace in Taguig City.
The Philippine-based MMA company announced the matchup as a "special exhibition" on their Facebook account as the two seek closure to their feud, which began at a Quezon City bar on May 26 when Matos fired punches at Geisler during a confrontation, and culminated in Geisler challenging Matos to an MMA fight.
No word has been given yet about what weight the two will fight at, the number of rounds and how the 'exhibition' tag will affect the rules under which the contest will be conducted.
The rest of the card wil feature URCC light heavyweight champion Chris Hofmann against Arvin Chan; John Adajar vs Jericho Tomagan in a battle of pro debuts; Eddie "Balong" Estrada and MJ Abrillo in a pinweight fight; plus 5 amateur fights.
Tickets priced at P1200 can be purchased by calling +639773489259 or visiting urccmma.com.
#
In an interview with Inquirer.net published Mon, Jun 6, indie film actor Kiko Matos said he thinks he can take on Baron Geisler in their  Universal Reality Combat Championship (URCC) match later this month. 
Big words, considering Baron is reportedly a taekwondo black-belter.
But Kiko said he has some "tricks up on my sleeve" as well. 
"I don’t really tell, guessing what I have, but I think I can take on Baron Geisler," he told the Inquirer, adding he is already undergoing training sessions to prepare for the match.
The URCC match came about after Baron and Kiko got involved in a violent encounter in a bar in Quezon City last month. 
This prompted URCC founder Alvin Aguilar to invite Baron and Kiko to settle their differences in the "URCC Fight Night" show on Jun 25, which the two actors promptedly accepted. 
Speaking to the Inquirer, Kiko said he has no plans of backing out from the match. 
"I would reconcile but I have no plans, it’s either we face on URCC and then reconcile, oh sige. Away lalaki na ‘to and I wouldn’t back down kasi lumaki na eh," he said.
Well, let's just see what happens on Jun 25.  
#
Baron Geisler and Kiko Matos have accepted the invitation of the Universal Reality Combat Championship (URCC) to settle their rift inside the cage.
The URCC announced on its Facebook page that both actors have contacted their match-maker to say they are willing to fight each other inside the cage.
The fight will happen at the Palace Pool Club on June 25.
On Monday, URCC founder Alvin Aguilar invited Geisler and Matos settle their difference inside the cage, saying this is a chance for them to make something good happen out of their altercation.
“If this does push through, we will charge tickets and all the tickets go to charity. Fighting in the streets or in bars is just no good. I’m no stranger to that. That’s something that shouldn’t be done anymore. That’s a thing in the past,” he said earlier.
Aguilar said one of the reasons he put up the URCC was to make sure that people have a proper venue to showcase their skills.
“If you guys are going to fight in the bar, you guys are both actors, famous personalities now, that doesn’t set a good example for anybody. Why don’t you settle your fight like real Filipino men? You go in the cage, you finish it, after that kamayan, then tapos na. Kaysa magha-hassle pa kayo ng ibang tao when you go in a bar, you break property, you hurt other people, magkakademandahan pa kayo,” he said.
Since both are not professional fighters, Aguilar said: “They will be fighting in the pro-am part of the URCC. We cannot put them in the pros.”
Last week, Geisler and Matos had an altercation during a fundraising event at a bar in Quezon City. A video of their dispute went viral on the Internet.
#