Congress on Monday afternoon proclaimed Davao City Mayor Rodrigo “Rody” Duterte and Camarines Sur Representative Maria Leonor “Leni” Robredo as the next president and vice president of the country, respectively.
The proclamation came after Congress, sitting as the National Board of Canvassers, finished the canvassing of votes with Duterte officially winning the presidential elections with 16,601,997, and Robredo, the vice presidential polls with 14,418,817.
Duterte was a mile ahead of his closest pursuer, administration candidate Mar Roxas, who had more than nine million votes.
Robredo, meanwhile, won the vice presidency in a tight race as she led second placer Senator Ferdinand Marcos Jr. by only more than 260,000 votes.
Senate President Franklin Drilon and House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte Jr. made the proclamation at 4:10 p.m., close to an hour after the joint session started.
The motion for the proclamation of Duterte and Robredo was made by Senate Majority Alan Peter Cayetano and House Majority Floor Leader Neptali Gonzales II.
Duterte skipped the proclamation ceremonies with his executive assistant Bong Go saying that the president-elect was busy with his “chores” as outgoing Davao City mayor.
In a television interview after the proclamation, Duterte’s spokesman Salvador Panelo said Duterte was busy trying to complete the members of his Cabinet.
Panelo and Vitaliano Aguirre, who will be Duterte’s secretary of justice, attended the proceedings.
Duterte, who had been meeting well-wishers, possible appointees, politicians, and foreign envoys in Davao City since he was presumed the winner, earlier said that he would not attend the proclamation rites.
He said he had not attended such ceremonies when he won elections in Davao City.
With Duterte absent, the gallery’s loudest applause went to Robredo, who was joined by her daughters Aika, Tricia, and Jillian as well as her supporters.
Drilon and Belmonte, Robredo’s partymates in the ruling Liberal Party, raised her hands at the House rostrum.
Her walk from her seat to the rostrum was slowed down by a bevy of her colleagues, who congratulated her and moved to have pictures taken with her.
Before going to the House of Representatives in Quezon City, Robredo attended a thanksgiving Mass at St. Peter Parish along Commonwealth Avenue.
The proclamation was preceded by the approval of the joint congressional committee’s report showing Duterte and Robredo as the winners in the May 9 elections, as well as the Resolution of Both Houses proclaiming the duly elected President and Vice President.
In moving for the adoption of the report and resolution, NBOC co-chair Sen. Aquilino Pimentel III said: “The results of the canvass showed that Rodrigo “Rody” Roa Duterte and Maria Leonor “Leni” G. Robredo obtained the highest number of votes for president and vice president, respectively.”
Although the approval of the two documents went without a hitch, the occasion was marred by a Visayan lawmaker’s protest about the non-inclusion of his name in the roll call during the canvassing, and the questions raised by an ally of losing vice presidential bet, Senator Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr., regarding the conduct of the May 9 polls.
Speech of Marcos’ ally
In his privilege speech before House moved to approve the NBOC report and Resolution of Both Houses No. 1, Abakada party-list Rep. Jonathan dela Cruz said the automated election system in place “has been shown to be vulnerable to external manipulations.”
While the lawmaker said he will elaborate on the issues he found regarding the automation of elections at the proper time and place, he said he does not agree with the NBOC’s tally of the votes.
“Let there be no doubt that while I strongly disagree with the National Board of Canvassers’ count, we accept it. We accept the finality of the count, which will be ratified by the joint session. And so for the sake of our country, our unity as a people and the strength of our democracy, I offer our congratulations and godspeed,” he said.
Reluctant candidates
Duterte and Robredo in 2015 expressed their reluctance to run for the two highest positions in the country.
They initially said they had no ambition to take on national posts.
Duterte shot down rumors of his last-minute push for president during the filing of certificate of candidacy in October 2015 when he filed for reelection as Davao City Mayor.
Duterte’s party PDP-Laban fielded Volunteers Against Crime and Corruption (VACC) chairman Martin Diño as their presidential bet.
Diño’s candidacy, however, kept the door open for a partymate like Duterte to become a substitute candidate.
Diño eventually withdrew his candidacy in December and Duterte filed his certificate of candidacy for president.
The mayor withdrew from the mayoral race and his daughter Sara took on his candidacy for mayor.
LP’s first choice to be the running mate of their standard bearer Mar Roxas was Senator Grace Poe, who eventually decided to join the presidential race with Senator Francis “Chiz” Escudero.
Outgoing President Benigno Aquino III and Roxas then turned to Robredo who was hesitant at first mainly because her daughters did not want her to run.
In the end, Robredo agreed to be Roxas’ running mate, saying that her late husband former Interior Secretary Jessie Robredo would also do the same for the country.
No post for Leni yet
Speaking to reporters over the weekend, Duterte admitted that he had yet to decide on what government post to give Robredo.
“I have not considered anything for her because I’m more worried about where I would place the friends that nagka-utang ako ng loob [from whom I have debt of gratitude],” he said.
For her part, Robredo said that she was giving the President-elect her full support with or without a Cabinet post. (MNS)
#
Boisterous cheers rang through the gallery of the House of Representatives as Rodrigo Duterte and Leni Robredo were officially proclaimed as the country's duly-elected president and vice president, respectively, at 4:08 p.m. Monday, May 30.
The proclamation was formally made respectively by Senate President Franklin Drilon and House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte.
Unlike past proclamations when both winners were in attendance, only Robredo was present in the historical event presided over by Senate President Franklin Drilon and Speaker Feliciano Belmonte Jr.
Duterte had stuck to his practice of not attending his own electoral proclamations.
"I have never attended any of my proclamations," he said in an earlier interview.
Rep. Neptali Gonzales II remarked that Duterte's presence or absence does not make the proceedings more legal or less, but then it would be important for the millions of voters who thrust him to the presidency to see that he is properly proclaimed.
For his part, Partylist Rep. Ibarra Gutierrez commented that "that's his decision. He has always tried to be unconventional, so I can't say I'm surprised, I just hope that, moving forward, unconventional does not translate into indifferent or disinterested."
Duterte topped the official tally of Congress, sitting as National Board of Canvassers, with 16,601,997 votes, while Robredo got 14,418,817 votes.
The three-day canvassing, from May 25 to 27, was the fastest in the country's automated elections' history.
Duterte will be the country's 16th president, while Robredo will be the 14th vice president.
Duterte, mayor of Davao seven times since 1988, was nicknamed "the Punisher" for his crime-busting crusade in the province. During the campaign, he vowed to get rid of corruption, drugs and crimes in a span of three to six months.
He ran under the PDP-Laban party side-by-side with the vice presidential candidate, Senator Alan Peter Cayetano.
Robredo, the widow of the late Interior and Local Government Secretary Jesse Robredo, was an incumbent first-termer at the House of Representatives during her election. Her decision to be the running mate of administration standard bearer Manuel Roxas II came at the last minute after the Liberal Party (LP) failed to convince Senator Grace Poe to run for vice president.
As she was proclaimed, chants of jubilation filled the gallery from Robredo's "yellow army" of supporters.
The proclamation was contained in Joint Resolution No. 1 containing the "Report of the Joint Committee on the Canvass of Votes for the Presidential and Vice Presidential Candidates in the May 9, 2016 Elections."
The joint resolution was approved by the members of the Senate and the House sitting in joint session.
The speeches started at 3 p.m.
Senator Aquilino Pimentel III and Majority Leader Neptali Gonzales II delivered the sponsorship speeches for the resolution, respectively, for the Senate and the House.
The resolution contained the "Report of the Joint Committee on the Canvass of Votes on the Candidates for President and Vice President on the May 9, 2016 Elections Together with the Resolution of Both Houses Declaring the Newly-elected President and Vice President of the Republic of the Philippines. "
"In full view of the public, with all opportunities given to every party concerned to present their positions and questions before the joint committee, the canvass proceeded smoothly and was concluded in record time unimpeded by glitches or unresolved questions," Gonzales said in his sponsorship speech.
As she awaited her proclamation, Robredo took the usual spot where she sat as Representative of Camarines Sur during plenary sessions.
In the gallery were Robredo's three daughters – Aika, Jillian and Tricia.
Seated in the same row were Duterte's lawyers and incoming Cabinet members like Vitaliano Aguirre, Salvador Panelo and Paola Alvarez.
The proclamation was briefly interrupted when ousted Northern Samar Rep. Harlin Abayon took the floor and questioned why his name was not called in the roll last week at the start of the canvassing.
Abayon was replaced by former Deputy Speaker Raul Daza last March 2016, in the wake of an electoral protest before the House of Representatives Electoral Tribunal (HRET).
Abayon then raised the matter before the Supreme Court, and the high tribunal had ordered the HRET to explain.
Gonzales said the question raised by Abayon could not be decided by both chambers, because they were convened for the purpose of proclaiming the new president and vice president.
When Abayon insisted on taking the floor, Gonzales ordered the sergeant at arms to escort him out of the plenary.
However, this was not pursued as colleagues prevailed upon Abayon to rest his case.
Before voting on the resolution to proclaim, Abakada partylist Representative Jonathan de la Cruz was allowed to deliver his speech.
De la Cruz, who campaigned for Senator Ferdinand Jr.'s bid for vice president, criticized Smartmatic, provider of the automated machines, saying these were "vulnerable to manipulation."
He also inquired about the action of the Commission on Elections (Comelec) on allegations of vote buying during the campaign and on reports of overspending by some candidates.
#
Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte and Congresswoman Leni Robredo have officially won the May 9 presidential and vice-presidential elections, respectively, based on the final tally of votes by Congress sitting as the National Board of Canvassers.
It was a big victory for Duterte of the PDP-Laban, who got more than 16.5 million votes, beating President Aquino's anointed, second placer Manuel 'Mar' Roxas of the Liberal Party (LP) by over 6 million votes.
Three of Duterte's rivals--Roxas, Grace Poe, Jejomar Binay-- conceded days after the May 9, 2016 polls. Only Miriam Defensor Santiago, who placed last, has not conceded.
Robredo of the LP got more than 14.3 million votes, narrowly beating Senator Ferdinand 'Bongbong' Marcos Jr., son and namesake of the late dictator, who got at least 14 million votes.
The Marcos camp, however, has questioned the results of the vice-presidential poll.
The canvassing of the presidential and vice-presidential votes, led by the joint session of Congress sitting as the National Board of Canvassers (NBOC), is the fastest in Philippine history post-1986. Canvassing only took three days.
The proclamation of Duterte and Robredo by Congress is expected on Monday.
Duterte won the presidency with his pro-federalism and anti-crime campaign, backed by his track record in leading Davao City for more than 20 years.
He will also hold many firsts: first president from Mindanao, first to jump from city mayor to president, first self-proclaimed socialist to win, and first septuagenarian (he's 71) chief executive.
Robredo, a lawmaker from Camarines Sur, was thrust into the national scene after her husband, Interior Secretary Jesse Robredo, died in a plane crash in August 2012. She campaigned on Aquino's platform of Daang Matuwid, and vowed to help uplift people from poverty.
She will be the Philippines' first Bicolano vice-president.