Filipino actress Jaclyn Jose won best actress at the Cannes Film Festival on Sunday, May 22, for her mesmerizing performance as a mother forced to sell drugs to survive before falling prey to corrupt police.
This is the first best actress win at Cannes for the Philippines. Brillante Mendoza won the first best director honor at Cannes back in 2009 for Kinatay. Another Filipino talent Raymond Red won the Short Film Palme d'Or in 2000.
A tearful Jaclyn said she was "so surprised" as she took to the stage to accept the award for her role in Ma' Rosa by acclaimed director Brillante Mendoza.
"I am so surprised. I just went to have the red carpet walk with my daughter [actress Andi Eigenmann], my real-life daughter and my daughter in the movie also," she said upon accepting the award, according to AP. "To Cannes, thank you so much, thank you to the jury, thank you that you liked our film."
She said she had to forget everything she learned in her 30 years in the business for the role as a sweetshop owner and small-time drug dealer in Ma' Rosa.
"The biggest challenge for me was not to act. Especially since I am coming from television shows where I play loud and campy characters," she told reporters.
The 52-year-old said she had to "tone everything down to zero" – even performing without makeup on for the stark, realistic presentation of the Philippine slums favored by Mendoza.
It is a dramatic change from her regular job, playing a spoiled, rich woman in the popular Filipino TV soap opera, The Millionaire's Wife.
Variety magazine praised her for the "naturalistic grace" of her film performance, playing the matriarch of a family struggling to survive amid squalor.
The daughter of a Filipina mother and a largely absent American serviceman father, Jaclyn first became famous in Philippine showbiz circles for her ethereal beauty.
But she has proven to be a versatile and hard-working actress, starring in dramas, comedies, horror stories, romances, and television soap operas.
She has won numerous acting awards in her native country and acted for some of its most prestigious filmmakers.
She appeared in Mendoza's first movie The Masseur 11 years ago and also his drama Serbis, which competed in Cannes in 2008.
In a quick interview aired on TV Festival de Cannes, Jaclyn spoke about her victory and how much this moment meant to her.
“I am so thankful to Brillante Mendoza,” the veteran actress said. “I did not [expect]. I just want to come here and be with my daughter and walk the red carpet.
“I was just sitting there watching the stage how nice it... is and how come in the Philippines we can’t make this, just these simple things and then they call my name. So I got surprised. I’m so happy really, really,” Jaclyn added. “ But of course I’m proud, so proud of our film. We just don’t know how the people would react or will like our film but us, we know that we did our best and we know that we have a good film."
#
The veteran actress played a struggling mother in the 2016 movie Ma' Rosa, forced to sell drugs in order to make ends meet but who then gets caught in a web of police corruption.
She has described the film as a drama that showed "how Filipino families coped and survived, in spite of poverty". Speaking at the awards ceremony a tearful Ms Jose said she did not expect to win.
But her win is timely.
This is a portrayal that will strike close to home for many in the Philippines, who have just overwhelmingly voted in the maverick mayor Rodrigo Duterte as president on an uncompromising platform of fighting crime and a brutal stance on drug dealers.
"The movie digs deep into the heart and soul of Filipinos because her children are forced to endure not only losing their mother but also the sole breadwinner of the family, a situation common in many households," said Ricky Lo, an entertainment editor and columnist in Manila who reviewed the film for the Philippine Star.
The film was shot before Duterte declared his intentions of running for president, but this win has highlighted just how potent an issue this is for the country.
Jose was already a huge soap star in the Philippines but for this role she underwent a dramatic transformation, taking on the guise of a shopkeeper who turns to drugs to feed her four children.
"The biggest challenge for me was not to act. Especially since I am coming from television shows where I play loud and campy characters," she told reporters.
But perhaps part of the irony, given that Duterte was elected on an implacable stance against such dealers, is the empathy with which she plays the role.
"She delivered a very moving performance and you can't help but be touched by the way she acts, the story will move you as it draws you in on what it's like to survive on the Manila streets."
Manila-based movie blogger Daniel Abbey, described the movie as "a cold, hard look at what it means to be poor" in the Philippines.
Back in her homeland, there was no short of high praise for Ms Jose's big win.
"It's no secret that the Philippines has an amazing pool of creative talent," said Mr Abbey. "This particular recognition at Cannes is sweet, not just because it's a first for us but because we get to showcase our talent to a wider audience."
Social media users also tweeted their delight at the win.
"Congratulations to Tita Jane, Ms Jaclyn Jose, for her well-deserved win as best actress at Cannes," tweeted Jake Ejercito using the local term for aunt. "Your talent has always been world class."
Atom Araullo expressed his excitement: "Amazing win for Jaclyn Jose and a first for the Philippines!"
#
CANNES, France - Philippine soap star Jaclyn Jose won best actress at the Cannes film festival Sunday for her mesmerizing performance as a slum matriarch who falls prey to corrupt police.
A huge star in her homeland, she said she had to forget everything she learned in her 30 years in the business for the role as a sweet-shop owner and small-time drug dealer in "Ma' Rosa".
"The biggest challenge for me was not to act. Especially since I am coming from television shows where I play loud and campy characters," she told reporters.
The 52-year-old said she had to "tone everything down to zero" -- for the stark, realistic portrait of a woman fighting to do the best for her family in director Brillante Mendoza's gritty film.
It is a dramatic change from her regular job, playing a spoilt, rich woman in the popular Philippine TV soap opera, "The Millionaire's Wife".
Variety magazine praised Jose for the "naturalistic grace" of her film performance, playing the matriarch of a family struggling to survive amid squalor.
The daughter of a Filipina mother and a largely absent American serviceman father, Jose first became famous in Philippine showbiz circles for her ethereal beauty.
But she has proved to be a versatile and hard-working actress, starring in dramas, comedies, horror stories, romances as well as television soap operas.
She has won numerous acting awards in her native country and worked with its most prestigious filmmakers.
But it is her relationship with "Ma 'Rosa" director Mendoza -- a friend for over three decades -- which has brought her into the international limelight.
She appeared in Mendoza's first movie "The Masseur" 11 years ago and also his drama "Serbis", which competed in Cannes in 2008.
#